I. CLASSIFICATION OF STUDENTS  
 

UNDERGRADUATE and GRADUATE students are designated as regular and non-regular.  

Regular Undergraduate students follow programs of study and comply with 
requirements  which lead to the bachelor’s degree. They carry the full semestral load called 
for by their  respective curricula and registration and classification purposes are divided 
generally  into freshies, sophomores, juniors and seniors.  

Regular Graduate students are prospective candidates for the master’s degrees. They  may 
either be part-time or full-time students.  

Non-regular students are: (1) non-degree students, with credits; (2) cross-registrants,  with 
credits; (3) special students, no credit. 

 

II. ACADEMIC POLICIES AND REQUIREMENTS FOR 

UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS 
 

1. Academic load  

An undergraduate student is not allowed to take more than 18 non- laboratory units or  21 
units including laboratory work. However, a graduating student with an academic  record better 
than average may be permitted to carry a heavier load in the last semester  of his/her course.  

2. Credit Unit  

The unit of credit is the semester hour. Classes meet three hours a week; these classes  carry 
48 clock hours of instruction and three units of credit. Each unit of credit is at least  16 
semester-hours of instruction, in the form of lecture, discussion, seminar, tutorial,  recitation, 
film viewing, fieldtrip or other forms of instruction as approved.  

3. Transferees   
 

a. From other Universities and Colleges  

Students applying for transfer should submit at least one month prior to registration, 
an  official transcript from each college attended and a certificate of honorable 
dismissal  together with the application form (UP Form-3). There is no entrance test 
administered  to transfer applicants.  

Requirements for admission:  

• A weighted average grade of 2.0, 80%, or B, or better for all the collegiate academic 
units earned outside of UP;  

• At least 33 units of academic courses (excluding P.E. and NSTP in a  non-UP college;  

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 7 

 



• He/she will have to complete in the University not less than 50% of the  units required 
for his course;  

• The quota set by the Dean for the College has not been filled up.  
• A transfer student must pay a non-refundable fee of ₱100.00.  

 
b. Advanced Credits (Validation)  

An admitted undergraduate transfer student must validate all courses he/she is 
applying  for advanced credits at the rate of at least 18 units a semester from the date 
of admission.  His/her admission will be on probation basis until he/she shall have 
validated or repeated  all subjects taken outside UP and which are required for his/her 
course. The student will  not be allowed to enrol in a subject the pre-requisites of which, 
taken elsewhere, have  not yet been validated or repeated, as the case may be.  

Application for advanced credits should be made on the prescribed form to the 
Dean.  Validating tests begin two weeks prior to the first day of registration of the 
opening of  each semester and one week after the last day of registration. There is no 
fee for  validating tests taken during the period. A validating test may be held outside 
of this  period with the consent of the division/department and the approval of the Dean 
and  upon payment of a fee of ₱20.00 per subject. 

c. From a Regional Unit to Diliman and Vice-Versa  

A student who wishes to transfer from a regional unit to Diliman, or from Diliman to 
a  regional unit, should file an application for transfer at the accepting college together 
with  the true copy of grades. If the action of the accepting college is favorable, the 
student  gets a college clearance which he/she presents to the accepting college 
together with  the permit transfer, a true copy grades, and a certification that he/she is 
not under  contract with UP Cebu.  

 

4. P.E. Requirements  
 

Basic Physical Education is a pre-requisite for graduation. All students should comply  with 
this requirement during their first and sophomore years. No student will qualify for  honorific 
scholar’s status unless he/she complies with this requirement. Eight (8) units  of P.E. are 
required for all undergraduates.  

 

Required Courses:  

• P.E. 1 Foundations of Physical fitness which is a required course for all students.  
• P.E. 2 Elective Physical Education activities for beginners.  
• P.E. 3 Elective Physical Education activities for advanced students.  

A student may take any combination for P.E. 2's and P.E. 3's to fill the eight (8) units.  

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 8 

 



5. National Service Training Program (NSTP)  

   

NSTP is aimed at enhancing civic consciousness and defense preparedness in the  youth by 
developing the ethics of service and patriotism while undergoing training in  any of its three 
(3) program components such as literacy training service (LTS), civic  welfare training service 
(CWTS), and reserved officers training course (ROTC). Its  various components are especially 
designed to enhance the youth’s active contribution  to the general welfare.  

 

a. Coverage  

All incoming first year students, male and female, enrolled in any baccalaureate 
program  of the University shall be required to complete one (1) NSTP component of 
their choice  as a graduation requirement.  

 

b. Program Components  

A student can choose from the following components: Reserve Officers Training 
Corps  (ROTC), Literacy Training Service (LTS), and Civic Welfare Training Service 
(CWTS).  

LTS refers to the component designed to teach literacy and numeracy skills to 
school  children, out of school youth and other sectors of society in need of these 
services.  

CWTS refers to the component or activities contributory to general welfare 
and  betterment of life or enhancement of community facilities, especially those 
devoted to  improving health, education, environment, entrepreneurship, safety, 
recreation and  morale of the citizenry and other social services.  

The college shall offer ROTC and at least one other component (CWTS for UP) 
every semester. If there are less than 300 ROTC enrollees, ROTC unit cannot be 
opened but students can cross enroll.  

 

c. Duration and Equivalent Course Unit  

The chosen NSTP component shall be undertaken for a period of two (2) 
semesters,  with fifty-six (56) training hours and student load credit of 3 units per 
semester. No  student will qualify for honorific scholar's status unless he/she complies 
with this  requirement.  

 

 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 9 

 



6. Registration  
 

A student must be officially registered in order to receive credit for course work. The  official 
registration form (UP Form-5 or Form 5-B), which is a record of classes for which  the student 
has enrolled, is filed in the Office of the College Secretary and Registrar. Special students 
(without credits) may register at any time without the payment of fine  for late registration, 
subject to other regulations of the University.  

 

Refunds  

Students who have paid their matriculation and who withdraw their registration or 
are  granted honorable dismissal or leave of absence shall be entitled for a refund of 
their  matriculation fees, except entrance and registration fees, in accordance with 
the  approved schedule:  

 

80% - within one week from the opening of classes  

50% - within the second to the fourth week from the  opening of classes  

No refund - after the fourth week  

 

In the case of a student who registers after the opening of classes and withdraws  thereafter, 
the number of days shall be counted from the actual date of registration, and  the refund of 
his/her matriculation fees shall be in accordance with the above schedule.  

 

Laboratory fees will not be refunded after one week from the opening of classes, 
where  voluntary change is made from one course to another. Refund of tuition fee for a 
subject  may be allowed only in the case of forced dropping of the subject.  

 

7. Cross Registration  
 

a. Within the University  

A student who wants to cross-register in Diliman or another regional unit must fill up 
the  application for cross-registration form available at the OCSR. If the request is 
approved,  he/she accomplishes the cross- registration form (UP Form 5-B). The 
student must pay  the registration fee at the UP Cebu Cashier’s Office before bringing 
his/her UP Form 5-B to the UP unit he/she is cross-registering. The total number of 
credits for which a  student may cross-register in a college should not exceed the 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 10 

 



maximum allowed by the  rules on academic load. No additional fee is charged if the 
total number of units does not  exceed 21 units.  

 

b. From Another Institution 

A student registered in another institution and who wishes to cross register in UP 
must  present a permit from his/her Dean or Registrar. The permit should state, in 
writing, the  total number of units for which the student is registered and the subjects 
that he/she is  authorized to take in the University.  

 

The University gives no credit for any course taken by any of its students in any 
other  institution unless the taking of such course was authorized by the President. 
This written  authorization is to be recorded by the University Registrar and should 
specify the subjects authorized.  

 

8. Student’s Identification Card  
 

The Student’s Identification Card is the student’s permit to many facilities of the school  like 
the library, etc. It is also a requirement for securing one’s copy of grades and  enrolment. It is 
non-transferable and may not be used by anyone except the owner.  Loss of this card needs 
an Affidavit of Loss notarized by a lawyer and must be reported  at once to the OCSR. Request 
for replacement must likewise be made.  

 

9. Waiver of Pre-requisites  
 

Courses approved by the University Council as pre-requisites to others may not be  waived. 
However, in meritorious cases, a student who has previously enrolled and fully  attended a 
course that is a pre-requisite to another may be allowed to enroll and attend  the latter course 
for credit, without having passed or earned credit for the pre-requisite  course. This will be 
acted upon through a Dean’s committee that shall decide the merit  of the application.  

 

10. Curricular Changes  
 

a. Substitution of Courses  
 

Every substitution of subjects must be based on at least one of the following:  

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 11 

 



• When a student pursuing a curriculum that has been superseded by a new one 
and the  substitution tends to bring the old curriculum in line with the new;  

• Where there is a conflict of hours between a required subject and another 
required  subject;  

• When the required subject is not given during the semester the student needs 
it.  
 

Every petition for substitution:  

1. Must involve subjects within the same department, if possible; if not, the two       
subjects concerned must be allied to each other;  

2. Must be between subjects in which the subject substituted carries number 
of  units  equal to or greater than the units that required subject;  

3. Must be recommended by the adviser and by the division chair concerned.  

 

All petitions for substitution must be submitted to the Office of the College 
Secretary  before 12% of the regular class meetings have been held.  

 

No substitution shall be allowed for any subject prescribed in the curriculum in which 
the  student has failed or received a grade of 5.0 except when, in the opinion of the 
program  adviser, the proposed substitute covers substantially the same subject matter 
as the  required subject. 

 

b. Changing of Classes 
 

All transfers to other classes shall be made for valid reasons. No change of 
matriculation involving the taking of a new subject shall be allowed after one week of 
regular class meetings have been held. 

Changes in matriculation shall be effected by means of the form for the Change of 
Matriculation and must be recommended by the adviser and approved by the Dean. 
The form, after being duly accomplished, shall be submitted to the Registrar through 
the Office of the College Secretary for assessment and notation. 

 

c. Dropping of Classes 

A student may, with the consent of his/her instructor and the Dean, drop a subject by 
filling out the prescribed-UP Form 26-A before 3/4 of the prescribed hours of the 
semester has elapsed, and not later. If a subject is dropped after the middle of the 
term, the faculty member concerned shall indicate the date and the class standing of 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 12 

 



the student at the time of the dropping as either Passing or Failing solely for 
administrative guidance. 

Dropping fee is ₱10.00 per unit. 

 

11. Attendance 

When number of hours lost by absence reaches 20% of the hours of scheduled work in one 
subject, the student shall be dropped from the subject, provided that a faculty member may 
prescribe a longer attendance requirement to meet their special needs. If the majority of the 
absences are excused, the student shall not be given a grade of 5.0 upon being dropped; 
otherwise, he/she shall be given a grade of 5.0. Time lost by late enrolment shall be considered 
time lost by absence. Excuses are for time missed only. All work covered by the class during 
the absence shall be made up to the satisfaction of the instructor within a reasonable period 
of time from the date of absence. 

 

12. Leave of Absence (LOA) 

 A student who withdraws from the college without the formal leave of absence shall have 
his/her registration privileges curtailed or entirely withdrawn. Prolonged leave of absence 
should be requested in a written petition to the Dean. The petition should state the reason for 
which the leave is desired and specifies the period for the leave, which must not exceed one 
academic year. 

 A college clearance must be accomplished by the student. 

 

Leave of Absence fee - ₱150.00 

Fine for Absence Without Official Leave - ₱225.00 

If a student withdraws after 3/4 of the total number of hours prescribed for the course has 
already elapsed, his/her instructor may give a grade of 5.0 if his/her class standing at the time 
of his/her withdrawal is below 3.0. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 13 

 



13. Grading System 

The work of the student shall be graded at the end of each term in accordance with the 
following system: 

 

1.0 Excellent 

1.25 Excellent 

1.50 Very Good 

1.75 Very Good 

2.0 Good 

2.25 Good 

2.50 Satisfactory 

2.75 Satisfactory 

3.0 Passed 

4.0 Conditional Failure 

5.0 Failed 

INC Incomplete 

 

Only these grades shall be officially recognized. 

 

A grade of 4.0 may be made up by repetition of the course or by passing a re-examination to 
be taken within one academic year from the date of the grade of 4.0 has been received. If a 
student passes the re- examination, he/she is given a grade of 3.0, but if he/she fails he/she 
is given a grade of 5.0. Only one (1) re-examination is allowed which must be taken within the 
prescribed time. If a student does not remove the grade of 4.0 within the prescribed time, he 
may earn credit for the course only by repeating and passing it. 

A grade of 4.0 given for the first semester work of a two-semester course shall be converted 
to a grade of 3.0 if the student passes the second semester part of the same course in the 
same academic year. If he/she fails, the grade of 4.0 that he/she received for the first semester 
work shall be converted to a grade of 5.0. 

The grade INC is given if the student whose class standing throughout the semester is passing 
but fails to appear for the final examination or fails to complete other requirements of the 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 14 

 



course due to illness or other valid reasons. In case the class standing is not passing and the 
student fails to take the final examination for any reason, a grade of 5.0 is given. Removal of 
the INC must be done within the prescribed time by passing an examination or meeting all 
requirements of the course, after which the student shall be given a final grade based on 
overall performance. 

 

14. Removal of Grades of Incomplete or 4.0 

Examinations for the removal of grades of INCOMPLETE or 4.0 may be taken without fee: 1) 
during the regular examination period, if the subject in which a student failed to take his/her 
final examination is included in the schedule of examination for the period during which said 
removal examination is to be taken; otherwise, said student is to be charged the fee of P20.00; 
2) during the removal examination period,  viz. the period covering ten (10) days preceding 
the registration in each semester; provided, that the examination for the particular subject is 
taken at the time that is scheduled; 3) within the ten-day  period preceding the Christmas 
vacation in colleges in which there is no inter- semester vacation; provided the examination is 
taken at the time it is scheduled. 

The period for the removal of grades of INCOMPLETE should not exceed beyond one (1) 
academic year from the date the grade was received. 

 

15. Scholastic Delinquency 
 

a. Warning 

Any student who gets a final grade below 3.0 in 25% to 49% of the total 
number of academic units at the end of the semester for which he/she is 
registered will be placed on a warning status. He/she shall be de- loaded three 
(3) units out of the total regular load for the succeeding semester. 

 

    b.  Probation 

At the end of the semester, any student who obtains final grades below 3.0 in 
50% to 74% of the total number of academic units enrolled shall be placed on 
probation in the succeeding semester with a de- loading of six (6) academic 
units. 

Probation may be removed by passing with grades of 3.0 or better in more 
than 50% of the units in which he has final grades in the succeeding semester. 

 

 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 15 

 



           c. Dismissal 

Any student who, at the end of the semester, obtains final grades of below 3.0 
in more than 75% but less than 100% of the total number of academic units in 
which he/she received final grades shall be dropped from the rolls of the 
college. 

Any student on probation who again fails in 50% or more of the total number 
of units in which he/she received final grades shall be dropped from the rolls 
of the college. 

 

    d. Permanent Disqualification 

Any student who, at the end of the semester, obtains final grades of below 3.0 
in 100% of the academic units in which he/she is given final grades shall be 
permanently barred from re-admission to any college or school of the 
University. 

Permanent disqualification does not apply to cases where, on 
recommendation of the instructors concerned, the faculty certifies that the 
grades of 5.0 were due to the student’s unauthorized dropping subjects and 
not to poor scholarship. However, if the unauthorized withdrawal takes place 
after the mid-semester and the student’s class standing is poor, his/her grades 
of 5.0 shall be counted against him/her for the purpose of the scholarship rule. 

 

16. HONORIFIC SCHOLARSHIP 
 

Honorific scholarship does not entitle the holders to any tuition fee waiver, either partial 
or full. 

 

a. UNIVERSITY SCHOLARSHIP 
 

Any undergraduate student who obtains at the end of the semester a weighted 
average of 1.45 or better is given the honorific scholarship. University scholars 
are listed in the President’s list of scholars. 

 

b. COLLEGE SCHOLARSHIP 
 

Any undergraduate student, who not being classed as University scholar 
obtains at the end of the semester a weighted average of 1.75 or better is 
given this honorific scholarship. College scholars are also listed in the Dean’s 
list of scholars. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 16 

 



In addition to the general weighted average (GWA) prescribed, a student must have 
taken during the previous semester at least 15 units of academic credits or the normal 
load prescribed (in the case of graduate students not less than 9 units); must be up to 
date with all the non- academic requirements (P.E. and NSTP). 

 

17.  Maximum Residence Rule 

A student must finish the requirement of a course of any college within a period of actual 
residence equivalent to 1 1/2 times the normal length prescribed for the course (6 years), 
otherwise he/she shall not be allowed to register further in the college. 
 
 
18. Graduation Requirements 

No student shall be recommended for graduation unless he/she has satisfied all 
academic and other requirements prescribed for graduation. 

All candidates for graduation must have their deficiencies made up and their records 
cleared not later than five weeks before the end of their last semester except for those 
subjects that the student is currently enrolled during that semester. 

No student shall be graduated from the University unless he/she has completed at least 
one year of residence work that may, however, be extended to a longer period by the 
proper faculty. The residence work referred to must be done immediately prior to 
graduation. 

No student who fails to pay the required graduation fee within the specified period set by 
the College Secretary shall be conferred any title or degree. Such a student may, 
however, upon his/her request and payment of the necessary fees be given a certified 
copy of credentials without specifying his/her completion of the requirements toward any 
title or degree. 

Students must file formal applications as candidates for graduation in the Office of the 
College Secretary. A fine is imposed for late application for graduation. 

 

19. Graduation with Honors  

Students who completed their courses with the following grade point average shall be 
graduated with honors: 

 

Cum Laude 1.75 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 17 

 



Magna Cum Laude 1.45 

Summa Cum Laude 1.20 

 

 

Provided: 

 

All grades in all subjects prescribed in the curriculum as well as subjects that qualify as 
electives shall be included in the computation of the weighted average grades. 

Candidates for graduation with honors must have completed in the University at least 
75% of the total number of academic units or hours for graduation and must have been 
in residence therein for at least two years prior to graduation. 

In the computation of the final average of candidates for graduation with honors, only 
resident credits shall be included. 

Students who are candidates for graduation with honors must have taken during each 
semester not less than 15 units or the normal load prescribed in the curriculum. 

 

III. GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR MASTER’S 

DEGREE PROGRAMS 
 

 
(Photo by Januar Yap) 

 
 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 18 

 



Section 1. Academic Calendar 
 

Article 1. Graduate programs in the University of the Philippines Cebu operate 
on either of two modes of the academic calendar. For any program, the 
academic year is made up of either two (2) semesters or three (3) trimesters. 
 

 

Section 2. Admission Requirements 
 

Article 2. An applicant for admission to a master’s degree program must be a 
holder of a bachelor’s degree or its equivalent from any recognized academic 
institution. 

 

Article 3. A duly accomplished application form addressed to the Dean of the 
college/school offering the degree program must be submitted together with 
the following documents: 
 

a. Original or certified true copy of the official transcript of academic 
records, in English language, with no remarks and with an 
explanation of the grading system used, from all tertiary and 
graduate institutions attended; 

 
b. For international students, certification from the Office of the 

University Registrar of previous university attended that the medium 
of instruction is English (if applicable), or results of Test of English 
as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) or results of the International 
English Language Testing System (IELTS), or its equivalent; 

 

 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 19 

 



 
c. Application fee; 

 
d. Two (2) sealed letters of recommendation from former professors 

and/or experts in the field of study that the student is seeking 
admission into; and 

 
e. Other requirements may be prescribed by the college/school for 

specific degree programs. 
 

Article 4. An applicant seeking admission into a master’s degree program shall 
take and pass the entrance examination, except in programs that do not require 
an entrance examination. 

 

Article 5. The college/school concerned shall determine the acceptability of 
the applicant based on a set of criteria that may include the applicant’s 
academic background, entrance examination results (if applicable), language 
proficiency, and research and work experience in the intended field of study. 
 
The Dean of the college/school shall issue an official notice of admission to the 
applicant based on the recommendation of the designated Admissions 
Committee of the respective degree-granting units. 

 

Section 3. Registration and Academic Load 
 

Article 6. All students intending to work for a Master’s degree will be allowed 
to register only upon presentation of the letter of admission from the Dean of 
their respective college/school. 
 
Article 7. At the time of the student’s admission, a Program Adviser shall be 
provided by the department/program concerned to advise and monitor the 
student in the course work and other requirements of the degree program. 
 
 Only full-time members of the graduate faculty shall serve as program 
advisers. 
 
Article 8. A graduate student on full-time study should take 9-12 units a 
semester/trimester as prescribed in the study plan of his/her degree program. 
Unless specified in his/her particular program, a student who takes less than 9 
units in an academic term is considered a part-time student. 
 
 Under meritorious circumstances, the student may be allowed more 
than the prescribed academic load by the Dean. 

 
  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 20 

 



Section 4. Advance or Transfer Credits 
 

Article 9. Advance credits, which are subject to validation, may be earned from 
courses taken at institutions outside of the UP System. 
 
 Transfer credits may be directly earned from courses taken at other UP 
units. Courses taken that may be considered equivalent to those required in 
the program pursued are subject to substitution by the department/ program 
concerned. 
 
 Units for undergraduate courses cannot be credited for graduate work. 

 

Article 10. A graduate student may apply for a maximum of nine (9) units of 
advance or transfer credits for work done at another institution with the 
appropriate department/program within the first semester/trimester of the 
student’s admission into the program. 
 
Article 11. Advance or transfer credits should have been earned with grades 
of “2.0” (or its UP equivalent) or better within the last five (5) years prior to 
admission. 

Article 12. No credit shall be given for work that has been credited to a 
previously earned degree. 

Article 13. The validation examination(s) required shall be conducted within 
the first year of enrolment of the student. 

 

Section 5. Grading System and Requirement 

 

Article 14. The following numerical grades shall be used in graduate courses: 
1.0, 1.25 (Excellent), 1.5, 1.75 (Very Good), 2.0, 2.25 (Good), 2.5, 2.75 
(Satisfactory), 3.0 (Pass), 4.0 (Conditional), INC (Incomplete), and 5.0 (Fail). 

Article 15. A grade of “3.0” or better is a passing grade. A graduate student 
earns credit for a course when s/he obtains a grade of “3.0” or better. 

Article 16. The General Weighted Average (GWA) shall be based on all 
courses taken by the student in his/her approved Program of Study, including 
those taken in compliance with the Residence Rules, if applicable. 

Article 17. To remain in good standing, a student must maintain a GWA of 
“2.000” or better in his/her course work at the end of each academic year until 
the completion of the Program of Study. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 21 

 



Article 18. A student who fails to satisfy the GWA of “2.000” at the end of the 
academic year shall be disqualified from the master’s program. 

 

Section 6. General Requirements (Non-Thesis Option) 

 

Article 19. To qualify for the master’s degree under the Non-Thesis Option, a 
student must satisfy the following requirements: 

a. complete a minimum of thirty (30) units of formal graduate courses; 
 

b. obtain a General Weighted Average (GWA) of “2.000” or better in 
all graduate courses taken in his/her Program of Study; and 

c. pass the master’s comprehensive examination, or complete a 
special problem, research project, capstone project, or its 
equivalent. 

Article 20. Additional requirements over and above these minimum University 
requirements and standards for the master’s degree may be adopted by the 
colleges/units for their respective master’s degree programs with the approval 
of the appropriate bodies. 

 

Section 7. Comprehensive Examination 

 

Article 21. A student may apply for the comprehensive examination after 
completing all the academic course requirements and obtaining a GWA of 
“2.000” or better in all his/her courses, including those courses taken to comply 
with the Maximum Residence Rules. 

Instead of a comprehensive examination, a program may require the 
completion of a special problem, research project, capstone project, or its 
equivalent. 

Article 22. The Comprehensive Examination Committee shall consist of a 
minimum of three (3) regular full-time faculty members with doctoral degrees, 
except in meritorious cases, when those with other credentials may be made 
part of the Committee, such as Professorial Lecturers and Professors Emeriti 
may also serve as examiners provided they are at least master’s degree 
holders and/or known experts in their fields and have taught in the unit during 
the last two (2) years. The exception shall be made only with the approval of 
the Dean, upon the recommendation of the appropriate bodies. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 22 

 



Article 23. The grades for the comprehensive examination are as follows: 
“Pass” or “Fail.” 

Article 24. If a student fails the comprehensive examination, a second 
examination shall be allowed within one (1) year after the first examination. 
Failure to pass this second examination shall bar the student permanently from 
the current master’s program.  

Article 25. If a student passes the comprehensive examination, s/he shall 
qualify for the master’s degree under the Non-Thesis Option. 

 

Section 8. General Requirements (Thesis Option) 

 

Article 26. To qualify for the master’s degree under the Thesis Option, a 
student must satisfy the following requirements: 

a. complete a minimum of twenty-four (24) units of formal graduate 
courses; 

b. obtain a General Weighted Average (GWA) of “2.000” or better in 
all graduate courses taken in his/her Program of Study; 

c. successfully defend a master’s thesis; and 

d. submit at least four (4) bound and certified copies of the approved 
master’s thesis. 

Article 27. The four (4) bound copies shall be distributed as follows: one (1) 
copy each for the student, the Thesis Adviser, the College, and the University 
Library. 

 

Section 9. Thesis 

 

Article 28. The master’s thesis must: 

a. embody an original and significant research or creative work in the 
primary discipline or field of the degree program pursued; 

 
b. show the student’s capacity to make a critical evaluation of previous 

work done in his/her chosen research topic; and 

c. demonstrate his/her ability to present research findings in a clear, 
systematic, and scholarly manner. 

 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 23 

 



Article 29. The thesis shall have an equivalent of six (6) units of graduate credit 
and shall have a numerical grade upon completion of all the thesis 
requirements. At the end of each semester/trimester, the student shall be 
marked “IP” (In Progress) until such time that s/he has completed all 
requirements. 

Article 30. The six units of thesis shall be registered in one term for six units 
(6) or two terms for three units each term (3-3). 

Article 31. A student who has already registered a total of six (6) units for 
thesis but still unable to finish the work should enrol for residency per term until 
s/he is able to submit the bound copies of the approved manuscript, but only 
up to a maximum of two years (4 semesters/6 trimesters). 

If at the end of this time limit, the student is still unable to submit bound copies 
of the approved manuscript, s/he shall be given a grade of “U” (Unsatisfactory) 
and should re-enrol all the six units of thesis. The same policies as in Article 
30 shall apply. 

Article 32. After the student completes the prescribed academic requirements, 
with a GWA of “2.000” or better, s/he shall request the head of the unit for a 
thesis adviser. The Dean shall then appoint the adviser who shall be chosen 
on the basis of the student’s research topic, upon recommendation of 
appropriate bodies. The adviser shall come from the unit where the student is 
enrolled. 

 

Article 33. The adviser shall be responsible for: 

a. advising the student in the preparation of the thesis proposal; 
b. guiding and monitoring his/her thesis research; and 
c. endorsing his/her master’s thesis for oral defense. 

Article 34. A Thesis Committee, consisting of the Adviser, Co-Adviser, if any, 
and a Reader, shall be constituted upon completion of course work. 

The Thesis Committee shall consist of full-time regular faculty members who 
are master’s degree holders except in highly meritorious cases as approved 
by the Dean upon the recommendation of the appropriate bodies. Professorial 
Lecturers, Professors Emeriti and experts from external institutions may also 
serve as Co-Adviser, Reader, and panelists upon approval by the Dean. 

Article 35. The functions of the Thesis Committee are to: 

a. approve the thesis proposal; and 
b. endorse the thesis draft for oral defense. 

 
 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 24 

 



Article 36. The functions of the Reader are to: 

a. evaluate the thesis for defense; and 
b. endorse the thesis to the Oral Defense Panel. 

Article 37. If the Adviser/Reader goes on leave for more than one (1) 
semester/trimester, the Dean shall appoint a new Adviser/Reader upon the 
recommendation of the appropriate bodies. 

A student who wishes to change an Adviser/Reader shall write the Dean, 
through channels. On the other hand, an Adviser may request to be relieved of 
his/her duties for justifiable reasons. 

Article 38. The student shall submit a written thesis proposal to the Thesis 
Adviser, Co-Adviser (if any) and Reader. Upon approval of the thesis proposal, 
the student may then carry out the thesis research. A certified copy of the 
approved proposal and a form endorsing the thesis proposal, duly signed by 
the Thesis Committee, shall be submitted to the Dean, through channels. 

Article 39. After the student’s completed draft has been evaluated favorably 
by the Thesis Committee members, they shall endorse it for oral defense to 
the Dean, through channels. 

Article 40. The oral defense examination panel shall consist of at least three 
(3) members and no more than five (5) members who shall be appointed by 
the Dean upon the recommendation of the appropriate bodies. A maximum of 
two (2) out of five (5) or one (1) out of three (3) members of the master’s oral 
defense panel may come from an external institution (i.e., outside the 
Department, College, or University) with whom the University has an existing 
MOA. 

The panel shall be chaired by one (1) of the examiners other than the Adviser 
or Co-Adviser. 

Article 41. The master’s defense must be held in the College/Unit at a time 
recommended by the panel, endorsed by the appropriate heads, and 
authorized by the Dean. 

The time and place of the master’s defense shall be officially announced at 
least two (2) weeks before the scheduled oral defense. The schedule of the 
defense may be changed only upon the recommendation of the defense panel, 
through channels, and the formal authorization of the Dean. 

Article 42. The defense may be held only if: 

a. the thesis manuscript has been received by each member of the 
panel at least one (1) month before the scheduled examination; 

 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 25 

 



b. all members of the examination panel are present, except for 
programs that require the inclusion of a foreign Co-Adviser or 
foreign external examiner. If the latter is absent, s/he shall be 
required to send her/his comments to the Chair of the Panel who 
shall integrate this in the final report. If any other member of the 
panel is absent, the oral defense shall be rescheduled. 

Article 43. The master’s defense shall be a public oral examination, the 
duration of which shall be left to the discretion of the panel. However, the 
evaluation and rating of the student’s defense shall be done by the panel in a 
closed-door meeting to be held immediately after the defense. 

Article 44. There shall be three (3) ratings for the defense: “Pass,” “Provisional 
Pass,” or “Fail.” “Fail” means substantial revisions are required by at least two 
(2) of the five (5) panel members or one (1) of the three (3) panel members. 
Any member who fails the student must specify the reason(s) in writing, a copy 
of which shall be attached to the report of the panel. 

“Provisional Pass” means minor revisions are required. All members of the 
panel must agree on the recommended revisions, which must be specified in 
writing and attached to the final report. A second rating sheet shall be signed 
only after the student incorporates the revisions and the defense panel certifies 
that the revisions were made. 

The result of the oral defense must be reported by the panel to the Dean, 
through channels, within the first working day after the examination. 

Article 45. If the student passes the defense, his/her master’s thesis shall be 
considered approved. 

Article 46. If the student fails the defense, s/he may submit herself/himself to 
a second master’s defense within one (1) academic year after the first defense. 
Failure to pass the second defense disqualifies the student from her/his current 
master’s program.  

 

Section 10. Residence Rules 

 

Article 47. The graduate student is in residence when s/he is officially enrolled. 

Article 48. The student must be officially enrolled in residence at least one (1) 
academic year prior to the conferment of his/her degree. 

Article 49. A graduate student may request in writing for a leave of absence 
(LOA) for at least a semester/trimester from the Dean of the college/school 
concerned. Approval of LOA is granted for not more than one (1) year at a time. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 26 

 



Article 50. The student who leaves his/her work during an academic term 
without a formal LOA permit is considered absent without leave (AWOL) and 
loses his/her registration privileges. 

A student who is considered AWOL for at least one semester/trimester must 
apply for readmission into his/her graduate program at the concerned 
college/school. 

Article 51. The maximum residence rule (MRR) states that: Students have five 
(5) academic years from their initial enrolment in the program to fulfil all 
requirements for a master’s degree. The five-year maximum time of program 
completion includes all leave periods. 

Article 52. The regular period for completion for a graduate student 
transferring from another university shall be reduced by one (1) semester. 

If there are courses taken by the student prior to his/her admission to the 
program and credited to his/her course requirements, then his/her allowed 
period of completion will be reduced by a number of semesters equivalent to 
one (1) semester for every nine (9) units of courses credited to his/her program. 

Article 53. In exceptionally meritorious cases, an extension of residence 
(waiver of MRR) beyond the above regular period of completion may be 
approved by the Dean upon recommendation of the appropriate bodies. 

Each extension shall be for a period not exceeding one (1) semester at a time. 
In no case shall the extensions exceed more than five (5) years. The student 
granted an extension shall take additional units of graduate courses in his/her 
discipline or area (with the approval of the student’s Program Adviser) during 
the extension period at a rate of three (3) units for every two (2) years of 
extension or a fraction thereof. 

 

Section 11. Graduation Requirements 

 

Article 54. A student shall be considered a candidate for graduation if s/he 
meets the following requirements: 

a. must have a GWA of “2.000” or better in all courses taken in her/his 
approved Program of Study, including those taken in compliance 
with the Residence Rules, if applicable; 

b. must have passed the oral defense of her/his thesis and submitted 
the required number of approved copies of the thesis; or must have 
passed the comprehensive examination; or must have successfully 
completed a special problem, research project, capstone project, or 
its equivalent; 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 27 

 



 

c. must satisfy all other requirements prescribed by the degree 
program; and 

d. must have been in residence one (1) year immediately prior to 
graduation. 

Article 55. The student must file the application for graduation and diploma 
with the college/school concerned according to the schedule in the academic 
calendar. 

Article 56. After the graduation of the student shall have been recommended 
by the College Faculty Assembly, endorsed by the University Council, and 
approved by the Board of Regents, s/he shall be officially conferred the 
master’s degree. 

 

Section 12. Second Master’s Degree 

 

Article 57. A student who has earned a master's degree in UP Cebu or any 
UP unit and wishes to earn another master's degree therein, must satisfy the 
following requirements: 

a. earn in the University at least eighteen (18) more graduate course 
credits in the second master’s degree in addition to the common 
course requirements of his/her first master's degree; and 

b. complete all other requirements of the second master's degree. 

Article 58. In case of thesis programs, the additional units required for the 
second master’s degree are exclusive of the thesis. In the case of non-thesis 
programs, the additional units are exclusive of the comprehensive 
examination. 

The additional course work in the program of study shall be in advanced 
courses that strengthen the area of specialization in the University. 

 

IV. STUDENT RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS 
 

The notion that a student’s place in an institution of higher learning is but to study has 
long been rejected in the University of the Philippines. It has been replaced with an 
entirely different tradition the by-word of which is militancy. The tradition revolves around 
the idea that thought should transcend the classroom and transform itself into action. 
 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 28 

 



Because of its affinity with the high purpose of national welfare, student militancy is 
appraised as a cherished value not only in the academe but in the entire Filipino society. 
As such, it is to be defended and preserved. 

 

The pursuit of this tradition of militancy is moored in certain basic rights guaranteed to 
students. 

 
 

1. Rights of Students 
 

Among the basic rights appertaining to students as members of the academic 
community are: 
 

a. Freedom of inquiry and expression, within the campus, in curricular 
activities and in extra-curricular affairs; 

b. Procedural fairness in disciplinary proceedings; and 

c. Participation in the governance of the institution. 

The student’s right of freedom of inquiry includes the right not only to accurate 
information, but also to hear any opinion on any subject of public or general concern. 
 

For this purpose, they may have the right to invite outside speakers, and school 
authorities may not veto their invitation solely on the basis of the credentials of the 
speakers. 
 

It also includes the right not to be subjected to indoctrination leading to imposed 
ideological homogeneity. 
 

The student’s freedom of expression includes the right: 
 

a. To hold any kind of peaceful demonstration. 
 

b. To protest against school policies and national or local policies 
even though not related to the school. 

 
c. To circulate literature and petitions for signature. 

 
 
The student’s rights to fair play in disciplinary proceedings include the following rights: 

 
a. Not to be punished for acts that were not grounds for disciplinary action 

when they were committed. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 29 

 



 
b. To a written notice of the charges and reasonable time to answer them 

and prepare for their hearing. 
 

c. To a hearing before suspension or expulsion, unless summary 
suspension is clearly authorized in limited cases. 

 

d. To an impartial judge. 

 
e. To be assisted by a counsel. 

 
f. To confront and question adverse witnesses. 

 
g. To present defense. 

 
h. To be informed of the decision. 

 
i. To appeal the decision to higher school authorities, where allowed and 

thereafter to the courts. 
 
 

2. Student Conduct and Discipline 
 

The UP Cebu expects from its students at all times a high degree of self-discipline 
and good moral conduct together with a seriousness of purpose in the pursuit of 
knowledge. 
 
The Rules and Regulations on Student Conduct and Discipline herein listed, are as 
approved by the Board of Regents at its 876th meeting on September 1976 
superseding all previous rules on the subject, and amended at these BOR meetings: 
908th, December 7, 1978; 923rd, January 31, 1980; 1017th, December 8, 1988; 
1041st, July 4, 1991; 1051st, June 25, 1992; and 1123rd, August 27, 1998. 
 

For the guidance of all concerned, the following rules and regulations on the conduct 
and discipline of students are hereby promulgated: 
 
SECTION 1. Basis of Discipline - Students shall at all times observe the laws of the 
land and the rules and regulations of the University. 
 

No disciplinary proceedings shall be instituted except for conduct prohibited by law or 
by the rules and regulations promulgated by duly constituted authority of the 
University. 
 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 30 

 



SECTION 2. Specific Misconduct - A student shall be subject to disciplinary action 
for any of the following acts: 
 

a. Any form of cheating in examinations or any act of dishonesty in relation 
to his studies; 

b. Carrying within University premises any firearm, knife with a blade 
longer than 2 ½ inches, or any other dangerous or deadly weapon; 
Provided, That this shall not apply to one who shall possess  the same 
in connection with his studies and who has a permit from the dean or 
director of his college or school; 

 
c. Drinking of alcoholic beverages within academic and administrative 

buildings, dormitories, and the immediate premises thereof, except in 
places expressly allowed by the University, or drunken behavior within 
the University premises; 

 
d. Unauthorized or illegal possession or use of prohibited drugs or 

chemicals, or other banned substances enumerated in the Dangerous 
Drugs Act of 1972 (as amended), such as LSD, marijuana, heroin, 
methamphetamine (shabu), or opiates and hallucinogenic drugs in any 
form within the University premises; 

 
e. Gambling within the University premises; 

 
f. Gross and deliberate discourtesy to any University official, faculty 

member or person in authority; 
 

g. Creating within the University premises disorder, tumult, breach of 
peace, or serious disturbance; 

 
h. Making a false statement of any material fact, or practicing or attempting 

to practice any deception or fraud in connection with his admission or 
registration in, or graduation from the University; 

 
i. Practicing or attempting to practice any deception or fraud in connection 

with his application in any University funded or sponsored scholarship 
or grant; 

 
j. Damaging or defacing University property; 

 
k. Disgraceful or immoral conduct within University premises; 

 
l. Unlawfully taking of University property; 

 
m. Any other form of misconduct. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 31 

 



SECTION 3. Rules and Regulations Promulgated by Deans or Directors of Units 
- Deans or Directors of various units may, after due consultation with the Faculty 
Student Relations Committee, promulgate rules on conduct and discipline of peculiar 
application to their respective units, subject to the written approval of the President or 
Chancellor and  to the rules on circularization and date of effectivity, as herein 
provided. 
 

SECTION 4. Student Disciplinary Tribunal - There shall be a Student Disciplinary 
Tribunal composed of a chairman, who shall be a member of the Integrated Bar of the 
Philippines, and two (2) members to be appointed for a period of one (1) year from 
among the faculty and other staff of the University. In any disciplinary case before the 
tribunal, a respondent may request that two (2) students be appointed to sit with the 
tribunal. 
 

The Chairman and non-student members shall render full-time service in the tribunal. 
 

Chairman: ₱1,000.00 per hearing not to exceed ₱4,000.00 per case 
terminated 

 
Members: ₱700.00 per hearing not to exceed ₱2,800.00 per case terminated 
 

Recording Secretary: ₱600.00 per hearing not to exceed ₱2,400.00 per case 
terminated 

 

The tribunal shall be under the supervision of the Vice-Chancellor for Student Affairs, 
who shall designate, whenever requested, the student members to sit with the 
tribunal. 
 

Autonomous units shall set up their own student disciplinary tribunals in accordance 
with these rules. 
 

SECTION 5. Jurisdiction - All cases involving discipline of students under these rules 
shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the student disciplinary tribunal, except the 
following cases which shall fall under the jurisdiction of the appropriate college or unit: 
 

a. Violation of college or unit rules and regulations by students of the 
college, or 

b. Misconduct committed by students of the college or unit within its 
classrooms or premises or in the course of an official activity; 
 

Provided, that regional units of the University shall have original jurisdiction over all 
cases involving students of such units. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 32 

 



SECTION 6. College Investigation - Investigation of cases falling under the 
jurisdiction of  a college  shall  be conducted  by a committee  of three (3) members 
appointed by the dean, one of whom shall be a student of the college. 
 

SECTION 7. Filing of Charges - A disciplinary proceeding shall be instituted motu 
proprio by the appropriate authority or upon the filing of a written charge specifying 
the acts of omission constituting the misconduct and subscribed to by the complainant 
or upon submission of an official report of any violation of existing rules and 
regulations. Upon the filing of said charge or report with the student disciplinary 
tribunal or the office of the Dean, as the case may be, an entry shall be made in an 
official entry book kept for the purpose, specifying the person or persons charged, the 
complainant or complainants, his witnesses, if any, the date of filing, and the 
substances of the charge. 
 

SECTION 8. Preliminary Inquiry - Upon receipt of the complaint or report, the 
tribunal or the Dean of the College, as the case may be, shall determine whether such 
complaint or report is sufficient to warrant formal investigation. In all cases where the 
complaint or report is found sufficient, formal charge or charges shall be drawn up 
and served upon each respondent. In every case, the parents or guardians of the 
students charged shall be furnished with a copy of the same. 
 

SECTION 9. Answer - Each respondent shall be required to answer in writing within 
three (3) days from receipt of the charge or charges. Formal investigation shall be 
held on notice as provided below. 
 

SECTION 10. Hearing - Hearings shall begin no later than one (1) week after receipt 
of the respondent’s answer or after the expiration of the period within which the 
respondent should answer. 
 

SECTION 11. Duration of Hearing - No hearing on any case shall last beyond two 
(2) calendar months. 
 

SECTION 12. Notice of Hearing - All parties concerned shall be notified of the date 
set for hearing at least two (2) days before such hearing. Notice to counsel of record 
or duly authorized representative of a party shall be sufficient notice for the purpose 
of this section. 
 

SECTION 13. Failure to Appear at Hearing - Should either complainant or 
respondent fail to appear for the initial hearing after due notice and without sufficient 
cause, this fact shall be noted, and the hearing shall proceed ex parte without 
prejudice to the party’s appearance in subsequent hearings. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 33 

 



SECTION 14. Postponement - Application for postponement may be granted for 
good cause for such period as the ends of justice and the right of the parties to a 
speedy hearing require. 
 

SECTION 15. Committee Report - The college investigating committee shall forward 
to the dean concerned within fifteen (15) days after the termination of the hearing the 
complete record of the case, with its report and recommendation. The 
recommendation signed by a majority of the members of the Committee shall state 
the findings of fact and the specific regulations on which it is based. 
 

SECTION 16. Action by the Dean - The Dean shall, within ten (10) days from receipt 
of the Committee report, transmit the report, together with his decision or 
recommendation, to the President of the University or the Chancellor of an 
autonomous unit, as the case may be. 
 

SECTION 17. Decision of the Tribunal - The tribunal shall decide each case within 
fifteen (15) days from final submission. The decision shall be in writing and signed by 
a majority of its members. It shall include a brief statement of the findings of fact and 
the specific regulations on which the decision is based. 
 

SECTION 18. Finality of Decision - Any decision of the tribunal or of a Dean, other 
than expulsion, permanent disqualification from enrolment, or suspension for more 
than thirty (30) calendar days, shall become final and executory after fifteen (15) days 
from receipt of the decision by the respondent unless within five (5) days from receipt 
thereof a motion for reconsideration of the same is filed, in which case the decision 
shall be final after fifteen (15) days from receipt of the action on the motion for 
reconsideration. 
 

SECTION 19. Appeal to the President or Chancellor - In all cases in which final 
decision is not conferred on a Dean or the Tribunal, the respondent may file an appeal 
with the President or the Chancellor within ten (10) days exclusive of Sundays and 
official holidays b after receipt of the decision. 
 

SECTION 20. Action by the President or Chancellor - Action of the President or 
Chancellor on recommendation coming from the Dean on appeal from a decision of 
a Dean or the Tribunal shall be rendered within ten (10) days exclusive of Sundays 
and official holidays b after receipt of the appeal. 
 

The Executive Committee shall automatically review and decide all student 
disciplinary cases in which the penalty of suspension for one (1) year or more, 
expulsion, and withdrawal of registration privileges is imposed. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 34 

 



The authority given to the Executive Committee under this rule is understood to 
include the power to affirm, reverse, decrease or increase the penalties imposed in 
the cases under review. 
 

The decision of the Executive Committee shall be final and executory after fifteen (15) 
days from receipt of the decision by the respondent unless, in the meantime, an 
appeal is made to, and given due course, by the Board of Regents. 
 

SECTION 21. Action by the Board of Regents - The Board may review on appeal 
decisions of the President or Chancellor when the penalty imposed is expulsion, 
suspension for more than one (1) academic year, or any other penalty of equivalent 
severity. 
 

SECTION 22. Rights of Respondents - Each respondent shall enjoy the following 
rights: 

a. Not to be subjected to any disciplinary penalty except upon due 
process of law; 

b. To be convicted only on the basis of substantial evidence, the 
burden of proof being with the person bringing the charge; 

c. To be convicted only on evidence introduced at the proceedings or 
of which the respondent has been properly apprised; 

d. Pending final decision on any charge, to enjoy all his rights and 
privileges as a student, subject to the power of the Dean or the 
tribunal to order the preventive suspension of the respondent for 
not more than fifteen (15) days where suspension is necessary to 
maintain the security of the college or the University. 

e. To defend himself personally, or by counsel, or representative of 
his own choice. If the respondent should desire but is unable to 
secure the services of counsel, he should manifest that fact two (2) 
days before the date of hearing, and request the tribunal or the 
investigating committee to designate counsel for him from among 
the members of the University constituency. 

 

SECTION 23. Effect of Decision - Decisions shall take effect as provided in these 
rules. However, final decisions of suspension or dismissal within thirty (30) days prior 
to any final examination, shall take effect during the subsequent semester, except 
when the respondent is graduating, in which case the penalty shall immediately take 
effect. 
 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 35 

 



SECTION 24. Records - All proceedings before any tribunal or Committee shall be 
set down in writing by a competent stenographer. Original records pertaining to 
student discipline shall be under the custody of the Vice- Chancellor for Student 
Affairs. Such records are hereby declared confidential and no person shall have 
access to the same for inspection or copying unless he is involved therein, or unless 
he has a legal right which cannot be protected or vindicated without access to or 
copying of such records. Any University official or employee who shall violate the 
confidential nature of such records shall be subject to disciplinary action. 
 

   SECTION 25. Sanctions 
 

a. Any student found guilty of the misconduct defined in Section 2 (a) shall be 
penalized with suspension for not less than one (1) year. 
 

1. All cases involving cheating or dishonesty shall be investigated by a 
College/Unit but shall automatically be subject to review by the 
Chancellor. 
 

2. Students found guilty of cheating/dishonesty shall be barred from 
graduating with honors, even if their weighted average is within the 
requirement for graduation with honors. 

 
b. Any student found guilty of the misconduct defined in section 2 (b) shall be 

penalized as follows: 
 

3. For the first offense, suspension for a period not less than fifteen (15) 
calendar days but not more than thirty (30) calendar days; 
 

4. For the second offense, suspension for a period of not less than thirty 
calendar days but not more than one (1) semester; 

 
5. For the third offense , the penalty shall be Expulsion; Provided, that 

should the deadly weapon be a firearm, the penalty for first the offense 
shall be suspension for not less than thirty (30) calendar days but not 
more than one (1) semester; for the second offense, the penalty shall 
be Expulsion. 

 

 

c. Any student found guilty of the misconduct defined in Section 2 (c) shall be 
penalized with suspension for not less than seven (7) calendar days, but not 
more than thirty (30) calendar days; Provided, that should the student be found 
guilty for the fourth time, the penalty shall be Expulsion. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 36 

 



d. Any student found guilty of the misconduct defined in Section 2 (d) shall be 
penalized with suspension for not less than fifteen (15) calendar days, but not 
more than forty-five (45) calendar days; Provided, that should the student be 
found guilty for the third time, the penalty shall be Expulsion. 

e. Any student found guilty of the misconduct defined in Section 2 (e) shall be 
penalized with suspension for not less than seven (7) calendar days, but not 
more than thirty (30) calendar days; Provided, that should the student be found 
guilty for the fourth time,  the penalty shall be Expulsion. 

f. Any student found guilty of the misconduct defined in Section 2 (f) shall be 
penalized with suspension for not less than thirty (30) calendar days, but not 
more than one (1) semester; Provided, that the penalty for the second offense 
shall be Expulsion; and Provided further, that should the student assault, 
strike, or inflict physical violence upon any University official, faculty member 
or person in authority, the penalty shall be Expulsion. 

g. Any student found guilty of the misconduct defined in Section 2 (h) shall be 
penalized as follows: 

 
1. For the first offense, by suspension for a period of not less than one 

(1) semester, but not more than one (1) year; 
2. For the second offense, the penalty shall be Expulsion. 

h. Any student found guilty of the misconduct defined in Section 2 (i) shall be 
penalized as follows: 

 
1. For the first offense, by suspension for a period of not less than one 

(1) semester, but not more than one (1) year; 
2. For the second offense, the penalty shall be Expulsion. 

i. Any student found guilty of the misconduct defined in Section 2 (i) shall be 
penalized as follows: 

1. For the first offense, by suspension for a period of not less than one 
(1) semester, but not more than one (1) year; 

2. For the second offense, the penalty shall be Expulsion. 
3. Any student found guilty of wilfully withholding or misrepresenting 

information in his application to the Socialized Tuition System (STS) 
shall be subject to the following guidelines on penalties for STS 
violations: 

 

i. If the information withheld involves common 
appliances, e.g. owned by majority of the population, 
the recommended penalty is one semester suspension, 
reimbursement of STS benefits received, plus 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 37 

 



permanent disqualification from STS and other 
scholarships. 

ii. If the information withheld involves appliances which 
may be used to indicate capacity to pay, the 
recommended penalty  is one year suspension, 
reimbursement of STS benefits received and 
permanent disqualification from STS and other 
scholarships. 

iii. If the information withheld is substantial such as car, 
income employment, real properties, the recommended 
penalty is expulsion plus reimbursement of all STS 
benefits. 

iv. If the student is found to have submitted falsified 
documents, the recommended penalty is expulsion plus 
reimbursement of STS benefits. 

v. If the student pleads guilty, he should be made to 
reimburse all STS benefits received either before the 
decision is made or reimbursement is made a 
precondition for enrolment. 

Furthermore, if the information withheld is grave such as in Nos. 3), c 
and 3), d above, the recommended penalty is two years suspension 
and permanent disqualification from STS and other scholarships. 

j. Any student found guilty of the misconduct defined in Section 2 (j) shall be 
penalized with suspension for not less than fifteen (15) calendar days, but not 
more than forty-five (45) calendar days; Provided, that should the student be 
found guilty for the third time, the penalty shall be Expulsion. In addition, the 
student may also be required to pay for the repair and/or replacement of the 
damaged property. 

k. Any student found guilty of the misconduct defined in Section 2 (k) shall be 
penalized with suspension for not less than seven (7) calendar days, but not 
more than thirty (30) calendar days; Provided, that should the student be found 
guilty for the third time, the penalty shall be Expulsion. 

l. Any student found guilty of the misconduct defined in Section 2 (I) shall be 
penalized with suspension for not less than fifteen (15) calendar days, but not 
more than forty-five (45) calendar days; Provided, that should the student be 
found guilty for the third time, the penalty shall be Expulsion. In addition, the 
student may also be required to pay for, or replace, the stolen property. 

m. The disciplinary action that may be imposed for violations of the misconduct in 
Section 2 (m) may take the form of expulsion, suspension from the University, 
withholding of graduation and other privileges, withdrawal of registration 
privileges, permanent disqualification from enrolment, exclusion from any class, 
reprimand, warning, or expression of apology. The gravity of the offense 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 38 

 



committed and the circumstances attending its commission shall determine the 
nature of the disciplinary action or penalty to be imposed. 

n. The Dean or Director of the unit may impose the penalty of suspension for a 
period not exceeding one (1) calendar year. If he deems suspension for a longer 
period or expulsion is warranted, he shall so recommend to the Chancellor, who 
shall refer the case to the Executive Committee for final decision. 

o. Any disciplinary action taken against a student shall be reported to his parents 
or guardians. 

p. Refusal to submit to the jurisdiction of the University by any student not enrolled 
at the time a charge against him is filed shall prejudice his future enrolment in 
any unit of the University. 

 
SECTION 26. Summary Actions - Notwithstanding the provisions of the foregoing 
sections, a Dean may proceed summarily against a student of a college in the 
following cases: 
 

Violation of rules and regulations issued by the Dean of the unit in accordance with 
Section three of these rules; 

 

a. Misconduct committed in the presence of a faculty member or any official of 
the University within the classrooms or premises of a college, or in the course 
of an official function sponsored by the college. 

The respondent shall be summoned to appear before the Dean of the unit, 
informed of the charge against him, and afforded the opportunity to present 
his side. 

Decisions taken under this section shall be in writing, stating the grounds for 
which disciplinary penalty is imposed. Such decisions shall be final and 
executory upon the issuance of the order. The penalty imposed shall not 
exceed suspension for fifteen (15) days exclusive of Sundays and official 
holidays 

b. The Vice-Chancellor for Student Affairs may likewise proceed summarily 
against students in cases of: 

1. Misconduct committed as provided in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, when committed within the University premises not 
falling within the jurisdiction of any college, school or unit or in 
the course of an official function sponsored by the University or 
a Unit other than a college, school, or academic unit. 

2. Misconduct as defined in Section 2 (g) above, whether or not 
the acts are committed within the premises of, and by persons 
belonging to, one or several colleges, schools, or units. 

 
  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 39 

 



SECTION 27. Definitions - The following terms shall have the meaning set forth 
below for purposes of these regulations: 
 

      a. “Autonomous unit” refers to such universities or units of the University of the      
 Philippines System which have been declared autonomous by law or by the 
Board of Regents; 

      b. “Regional unit” refers to units outside of Diliman and Manila which are not 
 autonomous; 

       c. “Student” shall refer to any person (1) admitted and registered, in a degree or 
 non-degree program or cross-registered in any course of the University on a 
 regular or part-time basis, including those  who are officially on leave of 
 absence and (2) who has not yet been separated from the University formally 
 through either transfer, graduation, honorable or dishonorable dismissal or 
 expulsion or expiration of the period allowed for maximum residence, at the 
 time of the commission of the offense, regardless of whether or not he is 
 enrolled in any unit of the University at the time of the filing of the charge or 
 during the pendency of the disciplinary proceedings against him; 

       d. “Laws of the land” shall refer to general enactments in force in the 
 Philippines; 

        e. “Official Report” shall include any report duly submitted in writing to any proper 
  authority in the University by a faculty member, any member of the University 
  security force, any officer of a college or unit, or any officer of the University 
  administration. 

 

 SECTION 28. These rules shall supersede all previous rules on student 
 discipline and shall take effect upon approval. Amendments to these rules shall 
 be circularized within ten (10) days after approval and shall take effect fifteen (15) 
 days after circularization, unless a specific date has been set, which date shall in no 
 case be within (5) days after its approval. 

 
3. General Guidelines To Address Students Involved In Red-Tagging Incidents 

 

I. WHAT IS RED-TAGGING? 

Red-tagging is the malicious labelling of individuals or organizations critical of the 
Government. It involves associating an individual or group with forces that warrant 
security actions from the State. It implies a security threat even in the absence of proof 
to support the threat. Malicious labelling can happen online and be demonstrated on 
public platforms to send the message that an individual or group is associated with a 
security threat. Red-tagging leads to harassment by State forces and the general public. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 40 

 



It violates the presumption of innocence of individuals and organizations and can deprive 
them of the opportunity to be tried before the court. Red-tagging  is  inimical  to  the  
Philippine  Constitution,  particularly  the  Bill  of  Rights,  and  to  the commitments of 
the University under Republic Act No. 9500 or the "University of the Philippines Charter 
of 2008,"which states, among others, that the "National University is committed to serve 
the Filipino nation and humanity. While it carries out the obligation to pursue universal 
principles, it must relate its activities to the needs of the Filipino people and their 
aspirations for social progress and transformation. The National University may provide 
venues for student volunteerism." 

II. RED-TAGGING AS A CRISIS SITUATION 

Red-Tagging puts a Student in distress because malicious labelling can lead to events 
with serious implications  on students'  security, peers,  and  family  members.  The  
incident  can  invite  dangerous attention on students' speech and movement and can 
lead to harassment of their family members and peers close to the said Student. A 
Student, for the purpose of this Guidelines, and as adopted from the 2012 Code of 
Student Conduct of UP Diliman, along with the related provisions of the University Code, 
is any individual admitted to and registered in a degree or non-degree program, cross-
registered in any course of the University on a regular or part-time basis, including one 
who is officially on leave of absence; and who has not yet been  separated from  the 
University Formally  through  either  transfer,  graduation,  honorable  or dishonorable 
dismissal, expulsion or expiration of the period allowed for maximumresidence.123 June 
2021  version. The Initial version of the Guidelines was prepared by the UP System Sub-
Committee on Students-in-Distress on 21 May 2021. The initial version was reviewed to 
the UP System Crisis Management Committee and the UP Office of the Vice President 
for Legal Affairs on 21 May 2021 and 10 June 2021, respectively. 

 

III. ADDRESSING RED-TAGGING INCIDENTS 

     I. THE OBJECTIVE OF THE WORKFLOWS 

•To coordinate the units that will ensure the security and safety of Student who is the 
subject of the red-tagging incident. 

•To facilitate the return to normal when the threat of red-tagging is significantly 
addressed. 

     II. CRISIS MANAGEMENT TEAM 

The Head of the CU Office of Student Affairs (OSA) or the Office of the Vice-Chancellor 
for Student Affairs (OVCSA)is the Crisis Manager for the incident. The Crisis Manager 
shall assign/constitute/involve the following individuals/units as part of the Crisis 
Management Team: 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 41 

 



•CU Student Relations Officer (SRO).  

The SRO shall be a personnel assigned by the OSA/OVCSA to receive reports, liaise 
with the student, and update the Crisis Management Team regarding the student's 
status. 

CU Public Information Office (PIO) may be composed of the CU Information Office 
and the Student's Home/ Dormitory Unit. The PIO prepares the communication 
concerning the Red-Tagging incident 

CU Security Committee. The Security Committee shall be composed of members who 
can provide Legal Services, Security Assistance, and other Services To coordinate the 
provision of services to support the Team's response. The Committee shall also include 
a Student Representative and a Barangay representative (in case of campuses covered 
by a Barangay) 

The CU shall allocate funds to finance the actions to address crises involving students. 
The allocation shall cover Legal Services, Student Support Services, Housing, 
Transportation, and other Administrative Actions required to manage the crisis and 
ensure the Student's Safety. 

     III. COMPONENTS OF THE WORK FLOW DURING THE RED-TAGGING 
INCIDENT 

Step 1. A Student reports to their CUOSA/OVCSA through their designated CU SRO. A 
formal report should be filed before the SRO acts on the incident. 

Step 2. The SRO contacts the concerned Student to document the case and confirm 
details of the incident reported as a red-tagging situation. 

Step 3. The SRO manages the threat by advising the Student to minimize exposure 
online. 

Step 4. The SRO reports the incident to the OSA/OVCSA. The OSA/OVCSA declares a 
crisis if the report is a confirmed red-tagging incident. 

Step 5. If the incident is a confirmed red-tagging incident, the SRO alerts the CUPAUs 
and the CU SC. 

Step 6. The PAUs shall issue publicity condemning the red-tagging incident. 

Step 7. In coordination with the red-tagged student, the SC designs the crisis action plan 
to ensure the security of the student. 

Step 8. The SC relays the plan to the OSA/OVCSA, SRO, and the concerned CU 
Executive Offices (e.g., Office of Student Housing, Office  of  the  Vice-Chancellor  for  

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 42 

 



Community  Affairs,  CU  Legal Office). The Actions may include (I) Housing the Students 
On-campus or in other UP campuses. (II) Coordinating the case with the Barangay (III) 
Meeting with the Philippine National Police (PNP) to address the security concerns. Filing 
of Legal Action to address the security concern 

Step 9. The SRO contacts the students to orient them regarding the crisis action plan. 
The SRO assists the student according to the activities in the crisis action plan. 

Step 10. The SC follows up on the different CU Executive Offices to be involved in the 
crisis action plan. 

Step 11. The PAUs, SC, and SRO report to the OSA/OVCSA on the Student and crisis 
action plan status. 

Step 12. The OSA/OVCSA reports the status to the CU Office of the Chancellor. 

     IV. COMPONENTS OF THE WORKFLOW AFTER THE RED-TAGGING INCIDENT 

Step 1. The OSA/OVCSA makes arrangements with the different Student Services units 
to support the students involved in the red-tagging incident. 

Step 2. The SRO regularly checks on the status of the Student and assesses the threat 
of red-tagging. 

Step 3. The SRO reports the assessment to the OSA/OVCSA. 

Step 4. The OSA/OVCSA convenes PAUs, SC, and SRO to determine if the crisis action 
plan can be terminated if recommended  to  be terminated,  the  SC  and  SRO make 
arrangements  to facilitate return to normal case. The OSA/OVCSA reports the status to 
the CU Office of the Chancellor. ii. If not recommended to be terminated, the crisis action 
plan remains in effect. The OSA/OVCSA reports the status to the CU Office of the 
Chancellor. 

Step 5. If  the  crisis  is  addressed  and  actions  to  return  to the normal  case  are 
completed,  the OSA/OVCSA declares the termination of the crisis action plan. The 
OSA/OVCSA reports the status to the CU Office of the Chancellor. 

     V. LEARNING FROM THE INCIDENT 

Step 1. OSA/OVCSA reports the experience to the System Sub-Committee on Students 
in Distress. 

Step 2. The Sub-Committee reviews the General Guidelines. 

Step 3. The Sub-Committee  recommends  enhancement  to  the  General  Guidelines  
in  view  of improving the responsiveness of the University. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 43 

 



General Guidelines To Respond To Suicide-Related Communications  
From UP Students 

1.  WHAT ARE SUICIDE-RELATED COMMUNICATIONS? 

 For the purpose of this Guidelines, Suicide-related Communications (SRCs) are acts 
and/or messages about a person’s intent to commit suicide or suicide experience that 
are conveyed publicly. The act or message presented by the individual may include a 
self-destructive desire, a self-injurious gesture, or an attempt that would cause serious 
harm or death on the subject. SRCs can appear online and be demonstrated on public 
platforms to send the message that an individual plans to commit suicide, or is 
entertaining thoughts that may unintentionally lead to death or injuries. 

SRCs are potential indicators of Suicide. Suicides are self-directed acts and behaviors 
with the intent to inflict severe harm or death on the person. Suicides include self-inflicted 
behavior that resulted in death, near- fatal self-injurious behavior, and similar self-harm 
attempts. When the evaluation of an SRD leads to the identification of a potential Suicide, 
actions may be undertaken to respond to such cases. These actions shall be guided by 
the General Guidelines to Respond to Suicide Incidents. 

2.  SRC AS A CRISIS SITUATION 

 SRCs are viewed as public messaging when conveyed through the media and similar 
public platforms (e.g., social networking sites, newsletters, websites, public service 
announcements). The impact of these SRCs are intensified due to its increased 
coverage and its message being relatable to other students. 

A SRC from a UP student, or an individual claiming to be a UP student can lead to a 
crisis situation in the University because (1) it can indicate an attempt to cause serious 
harm or death to the person, and/or (2) influence vulnerable individuals to imitate the 
behavior. 

    For this Guidelines, the subject of the Suicide Incident shall refer to a UP student or 
an individual claiming to be a UP student. A UP student is: 

Any individual admitted/registered, in a degree or non-degree program, cross-registered 
in any course of the University on a regular or part-time basis, including one who is 
officially on leave of absence 

Any individual who has not yet been separated from the UP formally through either 
transfer, graduation, honorable or dishonorable dismissal, expulsion, or expiration of the 
period allowed for maximum residence. 

 

 
  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 44 

 



3.  ADDRESSING SRC’S 

  3.1   THE OBJECTIVES OF THE WORKFLOWS 

To coordinate the units that will ensure the safety of the student who sent the SRC. 

To coordinate the units to reduce the risk to vulnerable individuals and manage the threat 
of contagion suicide. Threat of contagion suicide refers to suicidal behavior that is caused 
by exposure to SRC. 

      3.2 CRISIS MANAGEMENT TEAM 

The Head of the CU Office of Student Affairs (OSA) or the Office of the Vice-Chancellor 
for Student Affairs (OVCSA) is the Crisis Manager for the incident. The Crisis Manager 
shall assign/constitute/involve the following individuals/units as part of the crisis team: 

CU Student Relations Officer (SRO). The SRO shall be personnel assigned by the 
OSA/OVCSA to oversee the tracking of the person who delivered the SRC. The SRO 
should be an individual with training on Psychological First Aid (PFA). 

CU Public Affairs Units (PAU). The PAUs shall monitor public platforms for the presence 
of UP-related SRCs and convey the safe messaging of the University. It may be 
composed of the CU Information Office and personnel assigned as Suicide Prevention 
Messengers. 

CU Psychosocial Support Committee (PSC) or its equivalent. The Psychosocial Support 
Committee shall be composed of members who can provide expert Mental Health 
Services to the student and guidance on developing the public safe messaging. For this 
situation, the Committee shall also include the Student's Home Unit (in case the student 
is a confirmed UP student) and the concerned UP unit mentioned in the SRC. 

The CU shall allocate funds to finance the actions to address crises involving UP 
students. The allocation shall cover Student Support Services, Transportation, and other 
Administrative Actions required to manage the crisis and ensure the Student's safety and 
the successful safe messaging. 

 3.3 WORKFLOW WHEN THE SRC IS DETECTED (WORKFLOW 1) 

Step 1. The PAU, or any personnel from the UP, reports to the designated CU SRO for 
SRCs. An incident report should be filed before the SRO acts on the incident. 

Step 2.  The SRO traces the whereabouts of the person who sent the SRC to 
document the case and confirms whether the incident is an SRC that falls within the 
purview of the Guidelines. 

Step 3.  The SRO reaches out to the student. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 45 

 



i. The SRO manages the threat on the student by performing PFA (if 
necessary and only if consent is given). SRO proceeds to Step 4 

ii.  If Suicidal Behavior is identified, the SRO shall reach out to a person privy 
with incident. This person may be a family member, a guardian, a close friend, a peer, 
or any person privy to the incident who shall heed the SRO's instructions. When the 
person privy to the incident initiates the filing of a Suicide Incident report, the SRO 
proceeds to Step 4 and activates Workflow on General Guidelines to Respond to Suicide 
Incidents is activated. 

Step 4.  The SRO reports the incident to the OSA/OVCSA. The OSA/OVCSA declares 
a crisis if the report is a confirmed SRC incident 

Step 5.  Once the crisis is declared, the SRO: 

i.      Alerts the CU PSC to formulate the crisis action plan immediately. 
ii.     Contacts the CU PAU to draft the publicity for safe messaging. 

Step 6.  The PAUs shall draft the publicity for safe messaging, in consultation with the 
PSC. The PAU should be guided by principles and practices on safe messaging.3 

Step 7.  PSC designs the crisis action plan to ensure the safety of the Student. 

Step 8.  The PSC relays the plan to the OSA/OVCSA, SRO, and the concerned CU 
Executive Offices (e.g., Office of Student Housing, University Health Service). Actions 
may include: 

i.     Referring the student to the University Health Service 
ii.    Assign the student to a case manager who can provide oversee the care 

to the student 

Step 9.    The SRO contacts the students to orient them regarding the crisis action plan. 
The SRO assists the Student according to the activities in the crisis action plan. 

Step 10. The PSC follows up on the different CU Executive Offices to be involved in the 
crisis action plan. 

Step 11. The PAUs, PSC, and SRO reports to the OSA/OVCSA on the status of the 
Student and crisis action plan progress. 

Step 12. The OSA/OVCSA reports the status to the CU Office of the Chancellor. 

 3.4 WORKFLOW AFTER THE SRC INCIDENT 

Step 1. The SRO monitors the subject of the SRC according to the parameters provided 
in the crisis action plan. Monitoring should focus on identifying signs of suicidal behavior 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 46 

 



and the need for PFA or other psychosocial services to the affected stakeholder. SRO 
reports the progress to the OSA/OVCSA. 

Step 2. The OSA/OVCSA instructs the SRO to make arrangements with the subject 
student's Home Unit to monitor the individuals under their care. Monitoring should focus 
on identifying indications of a threat of contagion suicide, signs of suicidal behavior, and 
the need for PFA or other psychosocial services to affected stakeholders. SRO reports 
the progress to the OSA/OVCSA. 

Step 3. If the student lives in a dormitory or is under the care of a University facility (e.g., 
the student is a tutor in a learning resource center), the OSA/OVCSA instructs the SRO 
to make arrangements with the concerned Student Services Units to monitor vulnerable 
students under their care. Monitoring should focus on identifying indications of a threat 
of contagion suicide, signs of suicidal behavior, and the need for PFA or other 
psychosocial services to affected stakeholders. SRO reports the progress to the 
OSA/OVCSA. 

Step 4. Based on the reports from the SRO, Students Home Unit, the concerned UP unit 
mentioned in the SRC, and the Student Services Units, the OSA/OVCSA convenes 
PAUs, PSC, and SRO to determine if the crisis action plan can be terminated 

i.  If not recommended to be terminated, the crisis action plan remains in effect. 
The OSA/OVCSA reports the status to the CU Office of the Chancellor. 

ii.  If recommended to be updated, the OSA/OVCSA convenes the PSC to 
update the crisis action plan. The OSA/OVCSA reports the status to the CU Office of the 
Chancellor. 

iii.  If recommended to be terminated, the PSC and SRO make arrangements 
to facilitate return to normal case. The OSA/OVCSA reports the status to the CU Office 
of the Chancellor. 

Step 5. If the crisis is addressed and actions to return to the normal case is completed, 
the OSA/OVCSA declares the termination of the crisis action plan. The OSA/OVCSA 
reports the status to the CU Office of the Chancellor. 

(PAUs may refer to Preventing Suicide: A Resource for Media Professionals of the 
WHO (2008) 
[https://www.who.int/mental_health/prevention/suicide/resource_media.pdf]) 

 

 

 

 

 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 47 

 



4. UNIVERSITY OF THE PHILIPPINES (UP) PRIVACY NOTICE FOR STUDENTS 

(REVISED AS OF THE 1st SEMESTER/TRIMESTER 2019-2020) POLICY 

To exercise and safeguard academic freedom and uphold your right to quality education, 
the University of the Philippines needs to process your personal and sensitive personal 
information - that is, information that identifies you as an individual. 

UP is committed to comply with the Philippine Data Privacy Act of 2012 (DPA) in order 
to protect your right to data privacy. 

This notice explains in general terms the purpose and legal basis for the processing of 
the typical or usual examples of personal and sensitive personal information that UP 
collects from students like you, the measures in place to protect your data privacy and 
the rights that you may exercise in relation to such information. Please note that this 
document does not contain an exhaustive list of all of UP's processing systems as well 
as the purpose and legal basis for processing. 

Under the DPA, personal information may be processed (e.g. collected, used, stored, 
disclosed, etc.) with the consent of the data subject, pursuant to a contract with the data 
subject; when it is necessary in order for UP to comply with a legal obligation; to protect 
your vitally important interests including life and health; respond to a national emergency, 
public order, and safety; fulfill the functions of public authority or pursuant to the 
legitimate interests of the University or a third party; except where such interests are 
overridden by your fundamental rights. 

Sensitive personal information (e.g. confidential educational records, age/birthdate, civil 
status, health, religious affiliation etc.) on the other hand may be processed with the 
consent of the data subject, when such is allowed by laws and regulations, such 
regulatory enactments provide for the protection of such information, and the consent of 
the data subject is not required for such law or regulation. For example, under the 
Education Act of 1982, parents have the right to access the educational records of 
children who are under their parental responsibility. Processing may also be done when 
needed to protect the life and health of the data subject or another person, and the data 
subject is unable to legally or physically express consent; in the case of medical 
treatment; or needed for the protection of lawful rights and interests of natural or legal 
persons in court proceedings; and for the establishment, exercise or defense of legal 
claims; or where provided to government or public authority. 

The term UP/University/us refers to the University of the Philippines System and 
Constituent University (CU) offices. 

The term you/your refers to all students of the University of the Philippines System, as 
well as those seeking to be admitted to the University (except for those seeking 
admission through the UPCAT who are covered by the UP Privacy Notice for UPCAT 
applicants) and, where the context so indicates, in the case of minors, their parents or 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 48 

 



guardians who also sign registration related and other forms that students fill out, such 
as leave of absence and scholarship application forms. 

PERSONAL AND SENSITIVE PERSONAL INFORMATION COLLECTED FROM 
STUDENTS, AND THE PURPOSE/S AND LEGAL BASIS FOR PROCESSING SUCH 
INFORMATION 

Various UP offices collect your personal information through paper based and online 
processing systems. UP may likewise collect publicly available information about you. 
Some application forms require you to provide a photograph. In some instances, your 
image is captured by UP's closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras, or when UP 
documents, records, broadcasts (including live streaming), or publishes University 
activities or events. 

When you applied for admission to UP you provided us, through the forms you submitted 
and signed (and in the case of minors that your parents/guardians also signed), among 
others, your name, sex assigned at birth, date and place of birth, civil status, citizenship, 
your photograph, information about your family (names of your parents, their citizenship, 
civil status ), your signature and other personal information that we use, along with other 
documents you provide us (e.g. information contained in educational records) to be able 
to verify your identity in the course of determining your eligibility to enrol in UP. We 
required you to attest that the information that you provided us is true and correct as we 
also use the information in order to prevent the commission of fraud. Such processing is 
necessary for compliance with our legal obligation as a publicly funded University and to 
uphold our legitimate interest as an educational institution as well as that of taxpayers. 
When you provide UP with the personal and sensitive personal information of third 
parties you warrant that you have obtained their consent for UP to process their 
information. 

In the case of students who were admitted through the UPCAT, you also provided the 
highest educational attainment and occupation of your parents as well as your family's 
annual household income. UP processed that information along with your permanent 
address and other information (e.g. grades) as the selection of campus qualifiers also 
considers socioeconomic and geographic factors as explained in the UPCAT Bulletin. 
Such processing is pursuant to Section 9 of RA 9500 which requires UP to take 
affirmative steps to enhance the access of disadvantaged students to the University's 
programs and services. 

Non-Filipino citizens seeking admission to the University are required to provide personal 
and sensitive personal information in order for UP to ascertain that their admission and 
enrolment is allowed under applicable Philippine laws, rules and regulations, and 
University rules and procedures. 

In order for UP to exercise its right to academic freedom and to uphold academic 
standards under its Charter it processes the educational records and other personal 
information provided by prospective students to determine their eligibility to enrol. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 49 

 



UP processes your personal and sensitive personal information, in the course of fulfilling 
its obligation, to provide you quality education by exercising its right to academic 
freedom, and upholding academic standards, when the University's duly authorized 
personnel process your enrolment; evaluate the work that you submit in fulfilment of your 
academic requirements and give you grades; act on your applications for change of 
matriculation, dropping, leave of absence and the like; determine your academic 
progress and compliance with the University's retention and other rules; evaluate and 
recommend you for graduation; act on appeals on such matters; and, in the event you 
are qualified under the rules, recommend that you be awarded honors upon your 
graduation. 

Aside from sensitive personal information in the form of grades, you also provide UP with 
health information as part of the admission and registration processes so that the 
University may determine your physical fitness to enrol; and be able to provide you with 
the proper care when you avail of UP's health services; or in case of an emergency; or 
in compliance with University rules that are meant to uphold academic standards (e.g., 
submission of medical certificates in order for your absences to be excused, for you to 
drop a subject, go on leave of absence, or justify underloading in an appeal to graduate 
with honors, etc.). 

UP processes information regarding your religious affiliation in the course of verifying 
your identity (e.g. offices match information in your birth certificate and school records 
provided to us etc.) to conduct research to see to it that we uphold the principle of 
democratic access; and that, as a non-sectarian institution, we do not discriminate on 
the basis of religious creed; and to uphold your right to freedom of religion(e.g. by 
providing you with services that are consistent with your beliefs in relation to your health 
needs and food preparation, etc.). 

The University may process your personal and sensitive personal information in order to 
compile statistics and conduct research, subject to the provisions of the DPA and 
applicable research ethics guidelines, in order to carry out its mandate as the National 
University. 

Contact information is processed by UP in order to be able to communicate effectively 
with you, and to enable us to contact your family or other people you identify, in the case 
of an emergency. For example, UP offices or your teachers may use the information 
generated by the applicable registration system in order to contact you via email or via a 
messaging system for class related and other academic matters, as well as UP related 
activities and information. UP may also contact you in order to solicit your consent to 
participate in academic or non-commercial research. 

In some instances, because UP is aware that not all students have access to the Internet 
at all times, or that you may have failed to update email or contact details, UP may inform 
you of the need to contact certain UP offices, or to submit certain requirements by a 
certain date, or otherwise disseminate information that you need to know by posting your 
name or other relevant personal information on UP bulletin boards. In the case of email 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 50 

 



correspondence, your email address may be disclosed to other members of the class so 
that other students to whom you may have disclosed your new email address, or other 
contact details, will be able to relay email messages to you. 

UP processes personal and sensitive personal information, and, in particular, financial 
information related to your studies, in order to administer State-funded and privately 
financed scholarships, as well as grants or other forms of assistance, pursuant to its 
contractual or legal obligations as part of the University's legitimate interests and that of 
taxpayers, as well as relevant third parties, such as donors or sponsors. 

Your personal and sensitive personal information may also be processed in order for UP 
to provide you with services, such as the issuance of your ID card, stickers or gate 
passes, library, dormitory, health, counseling and guidance services and the like; 
facilitate the processing of applications for insurance and insurance claims; determine 
whether the student organization or association to which you belong may be recognized 
and given access to University services, etc., to enable your participation in student 
elections, exchange programs, internships, training programs, conferences, etc.; 
administer scholarships, grants and other forms of assistance, pursuant to UP's 
contractual or legal obligations; or to protect your vitally important interests. 

CCTVs and other security measures which may involve the processing of your personal 
information are intended to protect your vitally important interests, for public order and 
safety, and pursuant to the University's and the public's legitimate interests. UP 
processes personal and sensitive personal information in order to comply with its duty 
as an academic institution to exercise due diligence to prevent harm or injury to you or 
others. 

You may also be required to present your UP ID when you avail of University services, 
or when you request documents containing your personal and sensitive personal 
information. If you request such information through a representative, UP will require that 
you provide a letter of authorization specifying the information or document requested, 
the purpose(s) for which the same will be used, and the presentation of your UP ID or 
other valid government-issued identification card (GIID), as well the GIID of your duly 
authorized representative, in order for UP to see to it that fraud is prevented, and your 
right to data privacy is upheld. 

UP will process your name, student number and photograph in order to issue your UP 
radio-frequency enabled identification (RFID). A unique, randomly generated number, 
as well as your student number, will be encoded in the RFID tag or chip of your UP ID 
such that these will be the only information that can be read by a compatible RFID reader. 

UP, using its RFID readers, will process the above mentioned information when you tap 
or wave your UP ID card in close proximity to such readers in order to: 

• regulate access to libraries and other University buildings in order to supplement 
other existing security measures in place; 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 51 

 



• provide you with RFID enabled services in UP offices where these are applicable 
or available; and 

• provide benefits to qualified students pursuant to the UP Charter and relevant 
internal rules. 

UP has a legitimate interest in securing the UP community, its buildings and other assets 
and adopting means in order to provide services in a more efficient manner. UP is also 
required under its Charter to adopt measures in order to provide democratic access to 
its services. Rest assured that the University will process the above UP RFID information 
only for legitimate purposes, and for such periods allowed by the DPA and other 
applicable laws. UP has adopted appropriate measures to safeguard your right to data 
privacy over your above mentioned information. 

The University provides for the secure processing and, when applicable, secure archival 
of the educational record and other relevant personal information of its students that are 
needed to verify their identity so that UP will be able to provide the proper transcripts, 
certifications, and other documents that current or former students or alumni may request 
as required by the Education Act of 1982, and comply with obligations to the UP Alumni 
Association under the UP Charter and University rules, as well as for historical and 
research purposes as permitted by law. The relevant application forms and supporting 
documents submitted by those who are not qualified to enrol in UP, including those who 
are not accepted as shiftees or transferees, as well as qualified applicants who do not 
thereafter enrol in UP are securely disposed of within a reasonable period as determined 
by the University pursuant to applicable laws and regulations. 

INSTANCES WHEN YOUR RELEVANT PERSONAL AND/OR SENSITIVE 
PERSONAL INFORMATION MAY BE DISCLOSED BY UP TO THIRD PARTIES AND 
THE PURPOSE/S AND LEGAL BASIS FOR SUCH DISCLOSURES 

The University will disclose or share your relevant personal and/or sensitive personal 
information to third parties in order to carry out its mandate as an academic institution, 
comply with legal obligations, perform its contractual obligations to you, promote and 
protect your interests, and in order to pursue its legitimate interests or that of a third 
party. UP discloses such information when required or allowed by law, or with your 
consent. Examples of these include: 

-posting the list of students qualified to enrol in UP as well as waitlisted applicants online 
or on bulletin boards pursuant to its functions under its Charter, and for transparency in 
the admissions process; 

-submission of information required by the UNIFAST Board and the Commission on 
Higher Education in order to implement the Universal Access to Quality Tertiary 
Education Act of 2017 (RA 10931) and the UNIFAST Act (RA 10687); 

-disclosure of information to the proper bodies to enable you to take licensure, board, 
bar examinations and the like; 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 52 

 



-information sharing with the UP Alumni Association in order for UP to comply with its 
mandate under the UP Charter. 

-disclosure of your personal and/or sensitive personal information to relevant third parties 
in order for UP to respond to an emergency and comply with its duty to exercise due 
diligence to prevent harm or injury to you and/or others; 

-disclosure of your personal and/or sensitive personal information in compliance with 
University policies, rules and processes adopted pursuant to the UP Charter, or with your 
consent, in order to uphold or promote your interest and/or the principle of transparency, 
promote the legitimate interests of the University or third parties, such as in relation to 
the processing of applications for leave of absence; the conduct of student elections (e.g. 
posting of list of candidates and results); disclosures contained in the minutes of 
University bodies such as the Board of Regents in connection with graduation, student 
discipline, and the like; 

-providing information pursuant to the provisions of the Data Privacy Act or other 
applicable laws, and lawful orders or processes issued by government agencies, courts, 
and law enforcement agencies. 

-disclosures to enable UP to participate in university ranking exercises and other similar 
activities; 

-sharing personal and sensitive personal information with your parent(s)/ 
guardian/spouse, or other next of kin, in order to promote your best interests as required 
by law, or when necessary in order for the University to respond to an emergency, uphold 
your vitally important interests, or to prevent harm to you and/or others, or with your 
consent; 

-disclosures for your benefit, or in support of your interests, such as those intended to 
enable you to participate in exchange programs, conferences, trainings and the like, 
academic, athletic and other similar competitions or events; to apply for, receive and 
comply with terms and conditions of scholarships, grants and other forms of assistance; 
to be granted Civil Service eligibility based on Latin honors under PD 907 or in relation 
to internship, employment or other career opportunities with your consent; 

-disclosures to recognize your achievements such as through the publication and 
distribution of the commencement program, and other materials containing the names of 
graduates, their respective courses/certificates and honors received, or sharing of 
relevant information with honor societies or entities that confer awards with your consent; 

-information that we share with third parties who process your information in order to 
provide products or services to you or UP (e.g. cloud service providers) for registration 
systems that contain your enrolment information and grades, email providers, entities 
that provide insurance, process your UP ID and the like for which we require your 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 53 

 



consent. Unless your consent is given, it will not be possible for such products or services 
to be provided to you; 

-in the exercise of the sound discretion of UP pursuant to its mandate as a research 
university we may share your name, email, and other relevant personal information, with 
your consent, with researchers conducting academic or non-commercial research who 
have put in place applicable measures required by ethical guidelines and the DPA to 
uphold your privacy so that they can solicit your consent to participate in research; 

-news or feature articles about your achievements, awards received, research and public 
service activities and the like in University publications, websites or social media posts, 
disclosures that the University may make in the exercise of its sound discretion in 
response to inquiries from the press, or press releases and other similar disclosures for 
journalistic purposes, as allowed by the DPA, or with your consent; 

-publishing, broadcasting or live streaming of University activities or events pursuant to 
the legitimate interests of the University and third parties or for journalistic purposes, as 
allowed by the DPA; 

-other instances analogous to the foregoing. 

Where applicable, UP will take reasonable steps to require third parties who receive your 
information to uphold your right to data privacy. 

HOW UP PROTECTS YOUR PERSONAL AND SENSITIVE PERSONAL 
INFORMATION 

Even prior to the effectivity of the DPA, UP put in place physical, organizational and 
technical measures to protect your right to privacy and is committed to reviewing and 
improving the same, so as to be able to comply, among others, with its obligations under 
the applicable provisions of the Education Act of 1982, which require us to keep your 
educational records confidential. You may wish, for instance, to read UP's Acceptable 
Use Policy for Information Technology (IT) Resources (AUP). 

From time to time UP posts information on relevant sites and sends emails that explain 
how you can secure and maintain the confidentiality of your personal information. 

UP System and CU offices are permitted by the DPA and other laws to share information 
with each other for the purpose of carrying out the mandate of UP pursuant to the 
Constitution, its Charter and other applicable laws. For instance, the UP System Office 
of Admissions transmits or shares your relevant information to the proper CU Registrar. 
Registrars disclose or share information required by System officials or offices such as 
the Board of Regents, the UP President, the Executive Vice President, the Vice 
Presidents, the Secretary of the University, or the Office of Alumni Relations, to carry out 
their respective functions. Rest assured that UP officials and personnel in such offices 
are allowed to process your personal and sensitive personal information only when such 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 54 

 



processing is part of their official duties. This is enforced in the case of ICT-based 
processing systems (e.g. SAIS, CRS etc.) by assigning access to modules (e.g. to give 
grades, enlist, give advice, or tag students as ineligible, etc.) based on the official 
functions of said UP personnel. 

ACCESS TO AND CORRECTION OF YOUR PERSONAL AND SENSITIVE 
PERSONAL INFORMATION AND YOUR RIGHTS UNDER THE DPA 

You have the right to access personal and sensitive personal information being 
processed by UP about you. You may access your personal and sensitive personal 
information, for instance, through UP's information systems such as SAIS or CRS or 
request documents from relevant offices (e.g. the University Registrar or your College 
Secretary). In order for UP to see to it that your personal and sensitive personal 
information are disclosed only to you, these offices will require the presentation of your 
UP ID or other documents that will enable UP to verify your identity. In case you process 
or request documents through a representative, in order to protect your privacy, UP 
requires you to provide a letter of authorization specifying the purpose for the request of 
documents or the processing of information, and your UP ID or other valid government-
issued ID (GIID), as well as the valid GIID of your representative. 

As mentioned above, UP requires you to provide correct information. In the event that 
your information needs to be updated please follow the instructions found in the relevant 
website, or kindly get in touch with the proper University office(s). Please note that the 
correction of grades is subject to University rules and procedures. 

Aside from the right to access and correct your personal data, you have the following 
rights subject to the conditions and limitations provided under the DPA and other 
applicable laws and regulations: 

The right to be informed about the processing of your personal data through this and 
other applicable privacy notices. 

The right to object to the processing of your personal data, to suspend, withdraw or order 
the blocking, removal or destruction thereof from our filing system. Kindly note however 
that, as mentioned above, there are various instances when the processing of personal 
data you have provided is necessary for us to comply with UP's mandate, statutory and 
regulatory requirements, or is processed using a lawful basis other than consent. In the 
case of your UP ID it is your duty to immediately report the loss of such card to your 
University Registrar and the UP ITDC so that UP can prevent the unauthorized use of 
the same. 

The right to receive, pursuant to a valid decision, damages due to the inaccurate, 
incomplete, outdated, false, unlawfully obtained, or unauthorized use of personal data, 
taking into account any violation of your rights and freedoms as a data subject and 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 55 

 



The right to lodge a complaint before the National Privacy Commission provided that you 
first exhaust administrative remedies by filing a request with the proper offices or a 
complaint with the proper DPO through the email address indicated below regarding the 
processing of your information, or the handling of your requests for access, correction, 
blocking of the processing of your personal data and the like. 

HOW WE OBTAIN YOUR CONSENT AND HOW YOU CAN WITHDRAW 
CONSENT 

UP obtains your consent for the processing of your personal and sensitive personal 
information pursuant to this privacy notice by asking you to sign the relevant form. If you 
are a minor, we will require your parent or guardian to sign the proper form. If you wish 
to withdraw consent, kindly write or send an email to your University Registrar at (please 
insert applicable email address) and identify the processing activity for which you are 
withdrawing consent. Please attach a copy of your UP ID so that the Registrar will be 
able to verify your identity. Note that consent may be withdrawn only for a processing 
activity/ies for which consent is the only applicable lawful ground for such processing. 
Kindly await your Registrar's action regarding your request. Rest assured that once your 
Registrar confirms that you have validly withdrawn consent for a processing activity/ies 
the same shall be effective unless you thereafter send a letter or email to the Registrar 
with a copy of your ID that you are consenting to such processing activity/ies. 

REVISIONS TO THE PRIVACY NOTICE AND QUERIES REGARDING DATA 
PRIVACY 

The previous privacy notices issued for the 1st and 2nd semesters/trimester 2018-19 
have been revised. This amended notice will take effect on 27 August 2019. 

We encourage you to visit this site from time to time to see any further updates regarding 
this privacy notice. We will alert you regarding changes to this notice through this site. 

If you have any Data Privacy queries or concerns as it relates to your student records, 
you may contact your CU's UP Data Protection Officer through the following: 

• Via post 
• Through the following landlines 
• Through email 

 
UP Cebu 
Post: Room 242, Arts and Science building, UP Cebu Lahug Campus 
Landline: +63 (32) 233-8203 loc 202 
Email: dpo.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
 

 
 
 

 
  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 56 

 



V. STUDENT SERVICES FROM EACH OFFICE   
 

1. UNIVERSITY LIBRARY  

The University Library is the institution's heart that supports the academic and information 
needs of all students, faculty, REPS, and staff for study and research. Manned by professional 
librarians and support staff, the library accommodates the community's information needs. It 
provides, searches, locates and retrieves printed and non-printed material resources 
alongside electronic resources such as online subscriptions. The library primarily offers 
service to all students, faculty, REPS, and administrative personnel at the highest level of 
quality reference to the UP Cebu community. 

The UP Cebu Library (Photo by Bong Arboleda) 

 

 VISION 

The University of the Philippines Cebu University Library is to provide a cutting-edge learning 
environment to our students, faculty, REPS, and staff by having additional services. This 
service blends with our changing generation and evolving need for academic information. 

 MISSION 

To be collaborators in achieving excellence in teaching, creating outstanding research 
outputs, and delivering excellent operational services. 

 GOALS 

1. To provide space for students to collaborate, engage, develop, and create ideas in a 
conducive learning environment; 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 57 

 



2. To develop all sources of collection in all areas of programs offered, not limited to print 
materials; 

3. To achieve excellent service and assistance to all library users when providing information 
sources needed; 

4. To improve access to all library resources for the UP Cebu community; 

5. To formulate, develop, and implement plans for the use of technology to help library 
personnel deliver better and more excellent service. 

Information concerning the UP Cebu University Library was sourced from 
https://library.upcebu.edu.ph/vision-mision-goals/.  
 
 

UP Cebu University Library 
MYLAH R. PEDRANO, R.L., MSLS 
University Librarian 
Email: library.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
Contact No.: (032) 2328187 local 316 

 
 

2. HEALTH SERVICES UNIT 

I. Introduction: 

The U.P. Health Services Unit was first organized on June 1, 1976, to meet the medical 
requirements of UP Cebu community. The areas of responsibility of the unit extends to the 
entire constituency with regards to their medical, dental, and related necessary services. The 
Health Services Unit forms part of the supportive arm of the university with one full-time 
physician, nurse, and a part-time dentist. 

II. Objectives: 

        General 

                  To promote and maintain the general health of the UP Cebu community. 

        Specific 

             1.To attend to the medical, dental, and surgical care consultation of      
  students,   faculty, and staff. 

2. To promote hygienic and preventive measures like immunization and other health 
program in coordination with other health agencies. 

3. Conduct annual physical and medical examination to college constituency as well 
as pre-employment examination for new personnel. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 58 

 



4. Perform other medical activities for the college welfare. 

 

III. Entrance Health Examination: 

All students are required before enrolment to submit to a physical/dental examination. The 
examination is done before the opening of the 1 st semester to determine whether the student 
is medically fit to undertake his/her academic program and other activities concurrent with 
his/her studies. A medical certificate is issued after the examination which will be presented 
to the Office of University Registrar (OUR). 

IV. Consultation  

-   A student should always inform and consult the clinic when he/she becomes sick so that 
proper medical attention can be rendered, and a medical certificate is issued so that they can 
be excused from their class. Evidence of communicable diseases should also be reported at 
once to protect the community from contracting the disease.  

-   Patients will be attended on a first come first serve basis, however, serious cases shall be 
given priority.  

V. Services: 

The Health Unit renders the following services:  

 Medical 

Emergency treatment for minor illness and injuries. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 59 

 



  1. Dispenses injectables, vaccines and other starter dose. Administering 
 of injection is free of charge but the patient should bring their own supply 
 (medicine, syringe with needle) 

  2. Conducts medical check-up and health examination required for all 
 college constituents. 

  3. Coordinates with internal department and other health agencies in the 
 promotion of the general health and medical activities needed by the college 
 constituents.  

Dental 

  1.    Free prophylaxis (cleaning) per year. 

  2. For dental services, the patient will make an appointment w/ the Dentist 
 and shall pay first the fee to the Cashier’s office & present the receipt to the 
 clinic. 

  3. Emergency cases such as severe toothache, abscess, hemorrhage & 
 trauma from accident will be attended immediately. 

 Dental fees: 

- Prophylaxis        ----     P 60.00        - Litecure       -------   P 75.00 

- Tooth extraction ----     P 50.00  

 

IV. Medical Staff/Clinic Hours: 

    Lorel Saliendra – Dee, M.D.                            Karen Y. Ochea, R.N. 

    Medical Officer III                  Nurse III 

    8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. (Monday to Friday)             8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. (Monday to Friday) 

  
UP Cebu Health Services Unit (HSU) 
DR. LOREL S. DEE 
Chief, Health Services Unit 
Email: hsu.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
Contact No.: (032) 2328187 loc 317 

 
 
 
 
 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 60 

 



3. SAFETY AND SECURITY UNIT 
 

 

The Safety and Security Unit is tasked to secure UP Cebu Community from all forms of threats 
and criminality, by the following functions 

• To formulate and review all Safety and Security Protocols regularly.  
• To investigate all violations of Safety and Security Protocols 
• To enforce Safety and Security Protocols of UP Cebu and to lead on all Safety and 

Security related activities and events. And; 
• To lead and take charge on Security Guard Forces. 

External Services  

1. Application for Car Pass Sticker  

To facilitate applicants who will avail of the UP Cebu Car Pass Sticker and ensure all 
requirements are met.  

 
Sending Feedback  
A student may file feedback/complaints using our feedback form at our office or directly email 
the office at ovca.upcebu@up.edu.ph The office receives the feedback and sorts. For 
suggestions, the office investigates proactive solutions or re-evaluation of protocols. 
 

 1. Re-evaluation of process 
  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 61 

 



 2. Corrective action 

 3. Organizational improvement 
 

2. Visitors ID Pass Issuance  

The Safety and Security Unit is in-charge of issuing and logging in visitors who come and gets 
in the University. 
 

 
 

3. Providing Security for Official School Activity  

To provide security details upon request for official school activities. 

 
 

 

 
  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 62 

 



4. Facilitating reports and claims of lost items  

To log lost and found items within the University and facilitate in the claiming of said items. 
 

 

5. Incident Investigation  

To conduct initial investigation of incidents involving the University constituents provide a 
written report on the incident. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 63 

 



INTERNAL SERVICES  

1. Application for Car Pass Sticker   

To facilitate applicants who will avail of the UP Cebu Car Pass Sticker and ensure all 
requirements are met. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 64 

 



2. Providing Security for Official School Activity  

To provide security details upon request for official school activities. 

 

 

3. Facilitating reports and claims of lost items  

To log lost and found items within the University and facilitate in the claiming of said items. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 65 

 



4. Incident Investigation   

To conduct initial investigation of incidents involving the University constituents provide a 
written report on the incident. 

 

 
 

5. Safety and Security threat and Risk Assessment   

To identify threat and assess the level of threat the incident has on the University, its faculty, 
admin, and students. 

 

 
  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 66 

 



Filing Complaints  
 

A student may file feedback/complaints with our feedback form at our office or directly email 
the office at ovca.upcebu@up.edu.ph attaching the signed formal complaint. 
 
 

How complaints are processed 
 

 1. The office receives the complaint and directs the processing to proper authority. 
  1.1. For suggestive complaints, the office will look for proactive methods and 
         will assess the validity of the complaint. 
 

 2. For formal complaints, the office shall do the following: 
  1.1 Complaint processing 

  1.2 Complaint investigation 

  1.3 Corrective action 

  1.4 Complaint resolution 

  1.5 Organizational improvement 
 

Safety and Security Unit Contact Information 
 

JOSEPH PATRICK T. GUIEB 
Head of Safety and Security Unit 
Telephone:(032) 232 8187 local 306 
Email at: ssu.upcebu@up.edu.ph 

 

4. TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (TTBDO)  

The office performs all functions as expressed in Article 9 of the Revised Intellectual 

Property Rights (IPR) Policy of the University of the Philippines System. The basis for having 
a TTBDO is also supported by the Technology Transfer Act of 2009, and Republic Act 9500 
or the University of the Philippines Charter of 2008. 

 The main functions of UP Cebu TTBDO are: 

 1.    Technology transfer focused on the dispersion of knowledge and technologies 

developed by UP Cebu faculty, researchers and students; locators in the UP Cebu Business 
Incubator for Information Technology (UP Cebu in IT; and others; and 

 2.    Intellectual Property (IP) protection functions related to IP commercialization and 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 67 

 



licensing of IP, including other services, including but not limited to, patent search and/or 
drafting. 

In terms of protecting intellectual property rights, UP Cebu follows the provisions as set forth 
in the Republic Act 8293 or the Intellectual Property Code of the Philippines. UP Cebu also 
acts in accordance with the IPR Policy of the UP System. 
 

TTBDO Contact Information 
JASON A. NIEVA 
Head, Technology Transfer and Business Development Office 
Email: ttbdo.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
Contact No.: (032) 2328187 loc 208 
 

4. OFFICE OF ANTI-SEXUAL HARASSMENT (OASH) 
 
 

OASH’S REASON FOR BEING  

Coordination of efforts towards a culture of zero tolerance for sexual harassment in UP Cebu  

The OASH adheres to UP’s underlying principle to establish and maintain an intellectual and 
moral environment that the human dignity and worth of all members of the academic 
community are guaranteed full respect.  

 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 68 

 



THE OFFICE 

OASH is dedicated to ensuring a safe work and learning environment with zero 
tolerance to sexual harassment and related gender-based violence. The UP Cebu is 
committed towards the institutionalization of the OASH to uphold the dignity of every 
individual, guarantee the safeguard of human rights, and ensure an enabling 
environment for the reporting of sexual harassment in UP Cebu. 

THE OASH MANDATE  

Section 9(b) of the UP Anti-Sexual Harassment Code[1] tasks the OASH to: 

1.  design and implement a continuing program of activities and initiatives for the 
prevention of sexual harassment; 

2.  undertake information and educational activities to ensure that the University 
policy, rules, regulations, and procedures on anti-sexual harassment are 
disseminated and become part of academic culture; 

3.  formulate procedures of such nature as to elicit trust and confidence on the part 
of interested parties in resolving problems arising from cases or incidents of 
sexual harassment, including counseling and grievance management; 

4.  coordinate security and support measures to aggrieved parties or victims in 
sexual harassment cases; 

5.  serve as the secretariat of the ASH Council and Hearing Committees and act 
as custodian of records; 

6.  prepare and submit an annual report to the Chancellor of the University; 

7.  monitor the implementation of decisions/orders of the appropriate disciplining 
authority; and, 

8.  perform such other functions which this Code and the Chancellor may 
delegate.  

OASH PROGRAMS, PROJECTS, & ACTIVITIES  

BANTAY LUWAS KAWANAGAN 

• Coordinate security and support measures to aggrieved parties or victims 
in sexual harassment cases 

• Monitor the implementation of decisions/orders of the appropriate 
disciplining  authority  

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 69 

 



INFORMATION AND ADVOCACY FOR THE PREVENTION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT 

●   Conduct orientations/seminars/webinars/workshop for 

○   New faculty, employees, and incoming students (annual) 

○   University-wide student organizations 

○   OASH Hearing Committee Pool 

○   Faculty, employees, and students of University units (upon request) 

●  REPRESENTATION OF UP CEBU IN INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES AND INITIATIVES 

ON GENDER AND ANTI-SEXUAL HARASSMENT  

POLICY REVIEW AND RECOMMENDATION FOR ANTI-SEXUAL HARASSMENT 

●   Research and documentation of reported incidents of sexual harassment 

●   Formulate procedures of such nature as to elicit trust and confidence on the 
part of interested parties in resolving problems arising from cases or incidents 
of sexual harassment, including counseling and grievance management  

 

OASH PROCEDURES  

         Informal Procedure 

Step 1. Reporting to OASH. No particular form is required. It can be reported orally, 
in writing (letter, suggestion box, text and hotline message, email, chat), or through 
other non-written ways. 

Step 2. Mediation & Conciliation (Alternative Dispute Resolution). The focus of 
ADR is conciliation and mediation and during this process support services shall be 
provided to both parties. 

Step 3. Corrective Measures. Corrective Measures may be taken should the OASH 
deem them necessary. 

 

 

 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 70 

 



Formal Procedure 

Step 1. Report to OASH. It can be reported orally, in writing (letter, email, chat), or 
through other non-written ways. For formal complaints, fill up the case in-take form[2] 
and email it directly to OASH. 

Step 2. Interview. Determine Details, record the answers and ensure the record is 
attested by the complainant. 

Step 3. Notices. Within 5 days, of receiving the report, the OASH shall notify the 
accused party. 

Step 4. Response to report. After receiving the notice, within 5 days the accused 
party shall submit to the OASH a written notarized response. 

Step 5. Prima Facie Determination of Sexual Harassment. After receiving a 
response or once the expiration date of the submission of the response arrives 
whichever comes first all relevant documents, shall be forwarded to the ASH Council 
for evaluation and determination, of whether or not a prima facie case for sexual 
harassment exists if the issuance of preventive suspension is necessary. 

Step 6. Issuance of Formal Charge. After determining a prima facie case, the 
Chancellor or president shall issue a formal charge against any or all the accused party 
within 15 days of receiving the OASH report and recommendations. Issuance of a 
formal charge may include preventive suspension or protection order. 

Step 7. Formal Proceedings under ASH Hearing Committee. Upon issuance of 
formal charge, a Hearing Committee shall be formed and all proceedings before the 
Hearing Committee shall be in summary in nature. Formal proceedings shall include: 

1.  Summons to the accused party 

2.  Answer to the summons of the accused party 

3.  Preliminary Meeting 

4.  Position Papers 

5.  Clarificatory Meeting 

6.  Report and Recommendation 

7.  A decision by Chancellor (If the corrective measure is expulsion/dismissal) 

8.  Appeal to President (If the case involves UP Officials and Personnel) 

9.  Decision by President 

10.  Appeal to the Board of Directors 
  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 71 

 



 

OASH FAQs 

          What is Sexual Harassment? 

Section 5 of the UP ASH Code operationally defines sexual harassment as follows:  

Sexual harassment is unwanted, unwelcome, uninvited behavior of a sexual nature or 
inappropriate sexual advances or offensive remarks about a person’s sex, sexual 
orientation, or gender identity.  

It is an act, which may be committed physically, verbally, or visually with or without the 
use of information communication technology.  

Sexual harassment may be a demand or request for a sexual favor by a person of 
authority, influence, or moral ascendancy in exchange for appointments, grants, 
grades or favors, or set as terms and conditions for appointments, grants, grades or 
favors regardless of whether such act or series of acts are accepted by the offended 
party.  

It may be committed inside UP premises; or outside UP premises in work, education, 
research, extension, or related activity.  

Sexual harassment under this Code may include, but is not limited to, cases involving 
abuse of authority or power, ascendancy, influence such as in a teacher-student, 
senior faculty-junior faculty, health worker-patient or healthcare provider-client 
relationship; cases involving peer relationships such as faculty-faculty, employee-
employee, or student-student relations, or cases involving harassment of teaching or 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 72 

 



non-teaching personnel by students, or cases involving harassment of supervisors by 
subordinates.  

This Code contemplates cases of harassment involving persons of the same or 
opposite sex, regardless of sexual orientation, gender identity and expression.  

Where the act/s of sexual harassment are shown to be organization-related or 
organization-based, the liability for sexual harassment shall extend to the officers of 
the organization, who are registered students during the commission of the offense, 
and the organization itself.  

How are acts of sexual harassment classified?  

Section 7 of the UP ASH Code outlines the following classification of acts:  

(a) Light Offenses shall include, but are not limited to: 

1. surreptitious looking or stealing a look at a person’s private parts or underclothing; 

2. malicious leering or ogling; 

3. sexual flirtation or persistent unwanted attention with sexual overtones; 

4. inquiries or comments about a person’s sex life and gender orientation; 

5. communicating sexist/smutty remarks causing discomfort, embarrassment, offense, 
or insult to the receiver; 

6. display of sexually-offensive pictures, materials, or graffiti; and 

7. other analogous cases.  

(b) Less Grave Offenses shall include, but are not limited to: 

1. verbal and/or non-verbal abuse with sexual overtones, including but not limited to, 
offensive hand or body gestures; 

2. derogatory or degrading remarks or innuendoes directed toward the opposite or 
one’s sex, sexual orientation or gender identity; 

3. touching or brushing against a victim’s body; 

4. pinching that does not fall under grave offenses; 

5. sexual advances or propositions; and 

6. other analogous cases.  

 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 73 

 



(c) Grave Offenses shall include, but are not limited to: 

1. touching or groping of private parts of the body such as the breast, genitalia, or 
buttocks; 

2. forced kissing; 

3. requesting sexual favor in exchange for employment, promotion, local or foreign 
travels, favorable working conditions or assignments, a passing grade, the granting of 
honors or scholarship, or the grant of benefits or payment of a stipend or allowance; 

4. attempted or consummated unwanted sexual intercourse or torture of the person in 
a sexual manner; 

5. and other analogous cases.  

 

What standards and guidelines inform the University in dealing with sexual 
harassment cases?  

Section 2 of the UP ASH Code outlines the following policy standards and guidelines:  

(a.) This Code shall apply to all teaching and non-teaching personnel, and students of 
the University.  

(b.) Sexual harassment is reprehensible conduct that subverts the mission of the 
University and undermines the dignity of the members of the UP community. The 
University shall undertake measures to prevent and eliminate sexual harassment.  

(c.) All reported incidents or cases of sexual harassment, including incidents between 
member/s of the UP community and partner entities, shall be appropriately acted upon 
by the University.  

(d.) The University shall provide appropriate services to parties to sexual harassment 
cases.  

(e.) Retaliation in any form, against persons directly or indirectly involved in any 
incident report or case involving sexual harassment, shall be a ground for disciplinary 
action.  

 

Who can complain of sexual harassment in the University?  

This Code applies to all members of the UP community. The “UP community” refers to 
persons, natural or juridical, inclusive of teaching and non-teaching personnel, and 
students as defined herein.  

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 74 

 



(a.) “Teaching personnel” – any member of the teaching staff of the University, 
regardless of academic rank or status of appointment, including any person with 
teaching responsibilities. 

(b.) “Non-teaching personnel” – any person who works for the University, not included 
in the teaching staff regardless of statutes of appointment. 

(c.) “Student” – any individual admitted and registered in any program of the University 
on a regular or part-time basis, including one who is officially on leave of absence and 
who has not yet been separated from the University formally through either transfer, 
graduation, honorable or dishonorable dismissal, expulsion or expiration of the period 
allowed for maximum residence, at the time University at the time of the filing of the 
charge or during the pendency of the disciplinary proceedings, including any person 
undertaking on-the-job training. 

(d.) “Other UP workers” – refers to non-UP contractual and job order workers, who are 
under a contractual teaching and non-teaching arrangement, including, but not limited 
to coach, mentor, trainer, and consultant. 

(e.) “UP organizations” – refers to organizations or groups registered or recognized by 
the University or any of its offices/units.  

 

What are my options if I think I have been or am being sexually harassed?  

Sexual harassment exists because of harassers. Do not give them the satisfaction 
of you being defeated. Take action against harassment and let SIDRA be your guide:  

Self-care. Consider Threat Modeling and reclaim your safety. Remember, it is not your 
fault.  

Identify the abuse. Note the evolving language of this kind of violence especially 
online.  

Document. Note important details such as the date, time, location, witness, and the 
act(s) of sexual harassment.  

Report. If and when you are ready, report the sexual harasser to OASH by emailing 
oash.upcebu@up.edu or accomplishing the In-take Form.  

Assess the fight. Seek advice on available University Procedures and/or court action 
for the redress of your grievance.  

What if I want to remain anonymous?  

OASH is ready to receive any complaint of sexual harassment affecting our UP Cebu 
Community, whether anonymously or not. However, for reported sexual harassment 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 75 

 



to be actionable by OASH according to available University Procedures, the UP ASH 
Code in section 16(a) specifically requires that the report should be  

●   done in writing 

●   signed by the person reporting/complaining of the incident (whose connection 
with UP Cebu and that of the person complained of need to be validated on 
jurisdictional consideration), and 

●   notarized.  

In case of verbal report/complaint, OASH shall facilitate the documentation. In 
coordination with the Legal Office, OASH shall also facilitate the needed notarization.  

This does not mean that anonymous complaints will not be addressed. They will still 
be, only that the manner of addressing them will not be similar to what OASH is 
empowered to do if complaints comply with the strict requirements of the UP ASH 
Code.  

Remarks and Contact Information  

OASH is currently exploring ways to have an enabling environment for the reporting of 
sexual harassment in UP Cebu beyond the strict provisions of the UP ASH Code. This 
includes addressing anonymous complaints to hold true to its zero tolerance of sexual 
harassment. You can help by sending your suggestions to oash.upcebu@up.edu.ph. 
Workable suggestions that are in accord with due process of law will be included in the 
policy recommendations of OASH in its annual report to the Chancellor.  

Office of Anti-Sexual Harassment (OASH) 
ATTY. ARCHILL NIÑA F. CAPISTRANO, MInternatRel 
Coordinator, Office of Anti-Sexual Harassment 
Email: oash.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
Contact No.: (032) 2328187 loc 203 

 

[1] Based on the UP Anti-Sexual Harassment Code as approved by the UP Board of Regents 
on its 1324th Meeting on 26 January 2017 

[2] https://drive.google.com/file/d/18RRpku9wAx3ptFVbch2WuRuQo6i13kvW/view 

 

 

 

 

 
  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 76 

 



 6. GENDER AND DEVELOPMENT OFFICE 

 
 

UP Gender Development Program started in 1989 as a core of women from the three UPV 
campuses (Iloilo, Tacloban, Cebu) who were interested in promoting the welfare of other 
women. 

 

It evolved into the UPV Women's Desk in 1990 as an organization of women and men from 
the various sectors and colleges of UPV who were interested in women's studies and women's 
welfare. 

 

It became institutionalized as the UPV Gender and Development Program (GDP) upon the 
approval of the Board of Regents on April 17, 1997. 

 

In 2000, the Women's Desk became the Gender and Development Office. Its mandate is in 
line with that of the UCWS’ -- to encourage and strengthen teaching, research extension and 
advocacy on and for women in the university.  
 

Until today, UP Cebu GAD continues to play a leading role in engendering the curriculum and 
in helping transform LGUs, communities and institutions to become gender-responsive and 
promote rights of women, with the following vision and objectives: 
 

 
Vision 

 

We envision a Philippine Society that is free from all forms of gender discrimination and 
inequalities across all sectors, particularly the marginalized. It is a society that is inclusive, 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 77 

 



equitable, and just. This is enabled by nurturing gender responsive institutions anchored on 
democratic and feminist ideals geared towards economic, political, social, and cultural 
empowerment. 

 

Objectives 

UP Cebu GAD takes a leading role in engendering the curriculum in the University and in 
helping transform policy frameworks and programs of government agencies, communities and 
institutions to become gender responsive and to promote women’s rights. 

 

What are the services offered by UP GAD?   (Advocacy Programs, Projects, and 
Activities) 

• Conduct gender sensitivity seminars and workshops in line with curriculum 
development, engendering of the curriculum for information services. 

• Sponsor activities such as fora, symposium and trainings about gender and 
development in and out of campus in relation to various advocacies such as One Billion 
Rising, Women’s Month, Earth Day, Women’s Reproductive Health and Wellness, 18 
Day Campaign to end Violence against Women and their Children, etc. 

• Link with other offices (government and non-government) for partnerships in SIDLAK 
(community service programs and activities); 

• Research and Publications: Conduct of Feminist Research and Gender related 
studies; 

• Available collections of books and GAD materials on a wide range of topics 

as resource materials. 

 

Gender and Development (GAD) Office  
ANNABELLE G. MAGLASANG, Ph.D., RGC 
Coordinator, Gender and Development 
Email: gad.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
Contact No.: (032) 2328187 local 211 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 78 

 



7. OFFICE OF STUDENT AFFAIRS  
 

In support to UP Cebu's academic offerings, the Office of Student Affairs (OSA) provides 
services that respond to various needs of students through the following services: 
 
 
7.1. GUIDANCE & COUNSELING 
 

Counselling 

Students are guided in making decisions about personal, vocational and educational concerns 
with the help of a professional counselor. Counseling sessions are done with individual 
students or groups. Students are accommodated either as scheduled or as walk-ins. 
 

Counseling may also be availed virtually through preferred and secured online platforms. 
 

 

Group Guidance 

Weekly group guidance sessions are held for students to help them adjust to college life and 
the academic life in UP and help them in their emotional and psychological growth.  
 

Peer Facilitators Program 

The program trains a group of selected students to be Peer Facilitators & function as conduits 
between the students and the Guidance Services Specialists (GSS). They work hand in hand 
with the Guidance Services Specialists in assisting students to cope with the challenges of 
college life. 
 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 79 

 



7.2 PSYCHOLOGICAL TESTING 
 

Psychological test results are used as tools in the counselling process. Aptitude and Interest 
Tests are administered as requested or as the need arises, for better understanding and 
awareness of students’ potentials  
 

External Testing - Provide testing services to requesting companies and industries. 
 

7.3. CAREER GUIDANCE, JOB PLACEMENT AND FOLLOW-UP 
Students are guided in identifying and developing career paths through career symposium, 
job fair and campus interviews. These are followed up in subsequent counselling sessions. 
Students are informed of various educational and occupational opportunities. 

  
7.4.   SCHOLARSHIPS AND FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE 
 

a. RA 10931- Universal Access to Tertiary Education Act of 2017 
 Filipino Students who are either currently at the time of effectivity of the Free Tertiary 
 Education Act, or shall enroll anytime thereafter, in courses leading to a bachelor’s 
 degree in any SUC or LUC shall be exempted from paying tuition and other school 
 fees for units enrolled in. Students will be eligible to receive these benefits provided 
 they qualify under the admission and retention requirements of UP Cebu.  
 

 The following students are ineligible to avail of free higher education: 
 

• Students who have already obtained a bachelor’s degree or comparable 
undergraduate degree from any public or private HEI 

• Students who fail to comply with the admission and retention policies of UP 
Cebu, resulting in the student’s permanent disqualification from enrolling 

• Students who fail to complete their bachelor’s degree within a year after the 
period prescribed in their program. 

• Students who voluntarily opt out 

 In cases where students are ineligible for the RA 10931, they can still avail of free or 
 discounted tuition and other school fees, through Student Learning Assistance 
 System  (SLAS) Online. 

     

 
b. Student Learning Assistance System (SLAS)  Online  (slasonline.up.edu.ph) 

 
Students from the University of the Philippines (UP) come from all walks of life. Some of them 
may not be able to afford to pay the full tuition and other expenses to complete their academic 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 80 

 



requirements. As the UP community transitions to remote learning, other forms of learning 
assistance are needed to respond to the changing times. 
 
To expand the support to financially-challenged students and expedite the processing of support 
for academic activities, the University developed the Student Learning Assistance System (SLAS). 
The SLAS is an expansion of the Student Financial Assistance Online (SFA Online). The UP 
designed the SFA Online in 2014 to accept applications for tuition subsidy and allowance. 
Beginning on 7 September 2020, UP students may apply directly for financial support and learning 
assistance in the SLAS Online (slasonline.up.edu.ph). The expanded System will gather 
information on students' financial capacity, connectivity situation and connectivity options, and 
learning assistance requirements to help the University determine the support to be extended to 
the applicant. 
 
The SLAS Online accepts applications from: 

• Bonafide students of UP. These include: 
o Filipino undergraduate students including those enrolled in law and medicine who 

had been issued UP- mail accounts 
• Students in need of learning assistance from UP. Applicants would include: 

o Students applying for financial assistance 
o Students who wish to avail gadgets, internet connection and similar support 

services (e.g., tutorial services, assistive services) 
 
 
Beginning AY 2020-2021, the SLAS Online will support applications to the following learning 
assistance programs: 
 
 
 Grants-in-Aid Program (GIAP) 
 
 UP created the Grants-in-Aid Program (GIAP) to reduce the cost paid by students during 
enrolment, based on the household's paying capacity to which a student Belongs. Through the 
GIAP, UP may subsidize a portion of the full cost required during enrolment and, in some 
instances, grant additional subsidy to waive miscellaneous fees and grant monthly cash 
allowances. 
 
 The UP GIAP is open to undergraduate students, including students enrolled in Law and 
Medicine. 

 
 
Tertiary Education Subsidy 
 

The Tertiary Education Subsidy (TES) is a financial assistance program managed by 
 the Unified Financial Assistance System for Tertiary Education (UniFAST). 

The TES Grants Cash Allowance for One Academic Year to Undergraduate Students 
from Low-Income Households. To Process Applications To TES, Scholarship Personnel Use the 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 81 

 



Information Submitted By Students In SLAS Online. The University Endorses  SLAS Online 
Applicants Who Meet The TES Requirements Of Unifast. 
 
 
Learning Assistance for Remote Learning 
 
 In support of remote learning, the University is providing academic support to college students 
who would apply for learning assistance through the SLAS. Students from low-income households 
shall receive monthly Internet Connection to support academic instruction and learning activities 
this Academic Year. Based on their updated application information, students from the most 
vulnerable families shall be offered gadgets on top of their Internet connectivity subsidy. 
 
 UP undergraduate students, including those enrolled in Law and Medicine, are eligible  for 
remote learning assistance. 
 
 Kaagapay sa Pag-aaral Program ng Iskolar ng Bayan Program 
 
 To expand the support to financially challenged students accessing remote learning tools, UP 
launched the Kaagapay sa Pag-aaral ng Iskolar ng Bayan Program. Kaagapay has mobilized the 
private sector to donate computing devices that will be made available to those who applied for 
learning assistance. 
 
 UP undergraduate students, including those enrolled in Law and Medicine, are eligible  for 
the program. The University uses the information submitted by students in SLAS Online to 
determine the Kaagapay sa Pag-aaral program's beneficiaries. 
  
 
Donor-funded Scholarship Programs 

Donor-funded Scholarship Programs are financial assistance programs funded by private 
individuals and other organizations. Different campuses of the University manage these programs. 

 
Applicants to donor-funded scholarship programs must submit application forms to 

Scholarship and Financial Assistance units on their campus. To process applications, Scholarship 
personnel use the information submitted by students in SLAS Online. Slots are assigned to SLAS 
Online applicants that match the requirements provided in the donor-funded scholarship program 
guidelines. 

 
Students can apply for financial assistance to Donor-funded Scholarship Programs through 

the Scholarship Offices in their respective campuses. 
 

c. Student Assistantship Program 
 
The program provides students the opportunity to earn ₱60.00 per hour (for a maximum of 30 
hours per month) by working for UP. However, priority is given to low-income students.  First 
years are qualified to apply in the 2nd Semester only. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 82 

 



d. Student Loan Program 
 
A student who is unable to pay the required tuition and other fees due to financial incapacity 
may apply for, and shall be granted, a loan from the Student Loan Board to complete the 
registration.  Application forms are available at the Office of Student Affairs/Accounting Office. 

 

e. Meal Assistance Program 
 
The program provides qualified students to avail of a free meal at the UP Cebu Canteen 
equivalent to ₱60.00 per day.  This is a sponsored program with donations coming from some 
of our generous administrators/faculty. 
Aside from the STS and UP System Scholarships, there are other government & private 
scholarships that can be availed of. 

f. Donor-funded Scholarship Programs 

Donor-funded Scholarship Programs are financial assistance programs funded by private 
individuals and organizations. These programs are managed by Scholarship and Financial 
Assistance units in different campuses of the University. 

Applicants to donor-funded scholarship programs are required to submit application forms to 
Scholarship and Financial Assistance units in their campus. 

To process applications, Scholarship Affairs personnel use the information submitted by 
students in SFA Online. Slots are assigned to SFA Online applicants that match the 
requirements provided in the donor-funded scholarship program guidelines. 
 

g. The Kadaganan Fund 
 

Kadaganan Fund is a program established by the University of the Philippines Cebu Office of 
Student Affairs (UP Cebu OSA) to help students who have immediate needs such as food, 
boarding fees, transportation, or school requirements, but have no money. Any registered 
student of UP Cebu can borrow money from the fund, with a maximum amount of ₱500.00, 
payable within two months.  
 

Kadaganan in Cebuano means “somebody whom anybody can run to for help, protection or 
refuge.” UP Cebu wants its students to have a “Kadaganan” during times of urgent financial 
needs through this program.  The first donor of the Kadaganan fund was the UPhill Run of UP 
Cebu through the event organizer, Dr. Jonnifer Sinogaya, hence another reason to call this 
program “Kadaganan”. 
Application Process 
 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 83 

 



The Scholarships and Financial Assistance team of OSA headed by the GSS in-charge of 
Scholarships and Financial Assistance will be the main personnel in–charge of the Fund. Any 
student who wishes to avail of this service must fill up the application form attached (Appendix 
Form 5). The applicants will then be interviewed to verify the information they have given in 
the application form and for assessment. The final approval of the application will be from the 
OSA Director. Upon approval, students can claim the amount they wish to borrow directly from 
OSA through the Administrative Assistant of Student Financial Assistance (SFA). 
 
Terms of Payment 
 

Students will give payments directly to OSA through the Administrative Assistant of STS and 
Financial Assistance. Students who are not able to pay their loan within two months will 
receive a verbal notice. After three months of failure to pay, he/she will receive a written notice 
and an email to remind him/her of the unpaid loan. Any student who has accountabilities from 
the Kadaganan fund cannot avail of any additional loan and cannot obtain clearance from 
OSA. 
 

Donation to the Fund 
 

Anyone inside and outside UP Cebu can donate to the Kadaganan Fund. Donations are 
directly given to the Office of Student Affairs through the Scholarships and Financial 
Assistance Team.  
 

   7.5.   STUDENT ACTIVITIES AND ORGANIZATIONS  

 

 7.5.a. Rules and Regulations governing student organization,    
 fraternities, and sororities 
 

1. Rationale 
 

The holistic development of the person is not realized only in terms of academics. Among other 
things, the development of one’s academic, emotional, cultural, physical, social and 
psychological domains as well as leadership skills are also necessary in shaping the total 
person.  Opportunities for student leadership and involvement in student organizations and 
activities provide an avenue for the total person to develop outside the four walls of a classroom. 
  
While it is important that student organizations are afforded greater autonomy in managing their 
affairs, it is but necessary to provide a structure which ensures that student organizations operate 
in a way that advances the holistic development and growth of their membership. 
 
  

 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 84 

 



2.  Definition of Terms 

  
Student organization – any group of at least fifteen students (15) that share a common interest 
and subscribing to similar objectives with a constitution and by-laws and a set of activities for the 
academic year. 
  
Term of office – the duration of which an officer serves a certain position, as defined in the 
constitution and by-laws of the organization being served within the academic year.  
 

 

3.  Scope of the Guidelines 

 
The UP Cebu Student Organizations and Activities Guidelines shall cover all student 
organizations in UP Cebu (both high school and college). Other guidelines for student activities 
may be formulated by the University (e.g. Guidelines for Fine Arts installation of arts projects, 
Management guidelines for business plans, SC discipline committee guidelines, etc.)  
 
 

4. Organizational Structure 
 
Student organizations and activities in UP Cebu will be coordinated by the Office of Student 
Affairs and under the supervision of the Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs /or Vice Chancellor 
for Administration. 
 

     

5.  General Policies 
 

  i. Student Organizations are classified as: 
 a)     Student Council 
 b)    Student Publication 

 c)     Program Based Organizations 

 d)    Cultural Performing Groups 

 e)     Socio-Civic Organizations 

 f)     Political Organizations 

 g)    Fraternities & Sororities (only for college students above 18 years old) 
 h)    Year level or Batch organizations 

 i)      Interest Groups 

 j)      Scholarship Based Group 

 k)    Sports Club 

 l)       Regional Groups 

  
 
 
 
 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 85 

 



  ii. Student Council & Student Publication 

     Student Council & Student Publication whose constitution and by-laws have been 
  approved by higher authorities (BOR) need not apply for annual recognition with the 
  Office of Student Affairs. However, they are still covered by other provisions of the 
  guidelines such as to submit the letter of acceptance of their chosen adviser(s), year-
  end financial report and year end accomplishment report. 
 
  
       iii. Recognition of Student Organizations 

   Student organizations with at least ten (10) members, majority of which are bona fide 
  students of the university and whose five (5) officers are UP students with a total of 
  fifteen (15) must apply for recognition in order to enjoy the privileges afforded only to 
  duly recognized student organizations and to operate legitimately. Application for  
  recognition is done annually. The deadline for recognition of student organizations is 
  thirty (30) calendar days after the start of classes in the first semester. However,  
  student organizations who fail to apply for recognition during the first semester may 
  still apply for recognition in the second semester not later than 30 days after the start 
  of classes. The recognition of a student organization is valid from the approval of  
  recognition until the deadline for the application for recognition of the succeeding  
  academic year. Listing of requirements to be submitted are found at the Office of  
  Student Affairs.  
   
Procedure for Recognition of Student Organizations 

 

For any student organization who wants to apply for recognition, one (1) set of printed documents 
filed in a long folder must be submitted to the Office of Student Affairs not later than 30 calendar 
days from the start of classes in the First Semester of the Academic Year. 
 
Another one (1) set of the submitted documents shall be scanned and sent as e-copy in pdf-file 
and emailed to osa.upcebu@up.edu.ph in the following order: 
  
a)  Application Letter addressed to the Chancellor signed by Pres./Adviser (SOA Form No.1) 
b)  Letter of Acceptance of Adviser and endorsed by Dean/ Admin. Head (SOA Form No. 2A) 
c)   Letter of Acceptance of Co-adviser , if applicable (SOA Form No.2B)   
d) List of Officers and their respective ID pictures and specimen signatures, photocopy of their 
grades for the preceding semester and Form 5 to determine study load and enrolment of the 
current semester  (SOA Form 3)   
e)  Roster of Members with course/program enrolled, contact no. and email address as indicated 
in the Form 5 (SOA Form 4) 
f)   Copy of the Constitution and By-Laws ( as amended and revised) 
g)  Calendar of General Plan of Activities – GPOA with Name of Activities, Person In Charge, 
and Tentative Amount and Source of Budget (SOA Form5) 
h)   Accomplishment Report (SOA Form 6) 
i)    Financial Report or Status of Funds (SOA Form 7) 
 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 86 

 



 

  iv. Qualifications & Responsibilities of Advisers & Co-Advisers 

     Only faculty members who have at least one (1) year teaching experience and/ or 
  administration staff/ REPS with at least two (2) years’ experience in UP Cebu may 
  become an adviser of a student organization. Faculty member and administration 
  staff/REPS must consult with their College Dean/ Program Coordinator and/ or  
  Immediate Supervisor respectively before accepting the adviser-ship of a student 
  organization. Others who may not qualify to become advisers may be asked to be co-
  advisers. Duties and responsibilities of the adviser are to be embodied in the  
  Constitution and by-laws of the organization. The responsibilities of advisers and co-
  advisers extend to both on and off-campus activities. The adviser, a more experienced 
  and concerned mentor-elder in the university, provides advice to the members of the 
  organization not only on how to achieve organizational goals but also on the  
  development of individual members as responsible and concerned citizens. The  
  adviser and co-adviser may only accept at most two (2) student organizations only. 

 

  v.  Qualifications of Student Officers 
 
  (a)  Grade Requirements 
 
   a.1 Student Council Officers must be in good academic standing and must not have 
  incurred a grade of 5.0 in the semester immediately preceding the term of office. A 
  Student Council Officer must have no more than 50% of the enrolled subjects of the 
  immediately preceding semester dropped. The term of office of the student council 
  shall be defined in the constitution of the student council. 
 
  a.2 Editor-in-Chief of Student Publication must be in good academic standing and must 
  not have incurred a grade of 5.0 in the semester immediately preceding the term of 
  office. Editor-in-Chief must have no more than 50% of the enrolled subjects of the 
  immediately preceding semester dropped. The term of office of the editor in chief shall 
  be defined in the constitution of the student publication.  
 
  a.3 Officers of Student Organizations must be in good academic standing and must 
  have a GWA of 3.0 or better. He/she must have no more than 50% of the enrolled 
  subjects of the immediately preceding semester dropped. 
 
   (b) Academic Load Requirements 
 
  b.1 Officers of all student organizations must be enrolled in at least three (3) units in 
  the semester he/she is serving as an officer. 
 
  b.2 Student Council Officers must carry the prescribed academic load for the  
  academic year after the election. 
 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 87 

 



  b.3 Editor-in-Chief of the Student Publication must carry the prescribed academic 
  load for the semester(s) within the term of office 
 
      (c ) Other requirements 

      A student may only hold the position of President /Chairperson or its equivalent in 
  only one (1) student organization. 
   
6.  Rights and Responsibilities 
 
 A. Rights and Privileges of Duly Recognized Student Organizations are as follows: 
 
  a. Use of campus facilities (grounds, classrooms, buildings, etc.) and personal  
  services, subject to the rules and regulations on the use of such, as provided official 
  academic activities are not prejudiced;  
  b. Representation, through the UP Cebu Student Council, in standing committees 
  which concern student welfare and interest; 
  c. For duly and fully recognized student organizations, their officers and members 
  may be appointed representatives of the University in community activities are  
  requested or recommended by the Chancellor or his/her representatives (VCAA/VC 
  Admin.). 

 

 B. Moratorium on Student Activities 
 
 There is a moratorium on student activities starting one (1) month and strictly two (2) 
 weeks before the end of classes until the last day of the final exams period. During 
 this period, no student activities of any kind will be permitted except for business
 meetings. 

 

 C. Guidelines for Fraternities & Sororities 
 
 Initiation of students, which inflict physical or moral damage, is strictly prohibited. 
 Fraternities and sororities are not allowed to recruit students who are below 18 years 
 of age. 

 

 D.  Submission of Reports 
 

 a. Accomplishment Reports (AR) 
       Duly recognized student organizations are required to submit an   
  accomplishment report to the Office of Student Affairs every end of the  
  academic year. The deadline for submission of accomplishment report is two 
  (2) weeks before the end of classes in the second semester. Failure to submit 
  the report will be counted against the renewal for the recognition of the student 
  organization for the next academic year. The accomplishment report must 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 88 

 



  follow the prescribed format from the Office of Student Affairs and bear the 
  written approval & signatures of the President and their Adviser/ Co-Adviser. 
 
  
    b. Financial Status Reports (FSR) 
      Duly recognized student organizations are required to submit a financial report 
  to the Office of Student Affairs every end of the academic year. The deadline 
  for submission of financial status reports is two (2) weeks before the end of 
  classes in the second semester. Failure to submit the report will be counted 
  against the renewal for the recognition of the student organization for the next 
  academic year. The financial report must follow the prescribed format from the 
  Office of Student Affairs and bear the written signature of President and  
  approval by the Adviser/Co-Adviser. 
  
7. Withdrawal of Recognition of Student Organization 

 

Recognition may be reverted or also withdrawn as the case may be, upon cause and 
after due process. Grounds for withdrawal may be in the form of willful violation of UP 
Cebu rules and regulations in general, and the UP Cebu Student Organization and 
Activities guidelines in particular. Jurisdiction over cases involving student organizations 
rests on the University committee convened for the purpose, chaired by the OSA Director 
and whose membership include two (2) faculty representatives, the vice chairperson of 
the Student Council and the student rights and welfare committee chair of the Student 
Council. 

 

8. Guidelines for the Conduct of Activities                           
 
 a) No organization may start an activity except the holding of business meetings  
 without prior approval of their recognition by the Office of Student Affairs; 
 
 b) For activities that require the use of electricity and/or use of areas within UP Cebu 
 roofed spaces except tambayans and other areas utilized for academic and non-
 academic purposes, the organization has to complete the general request form 
 (GRF)/event sheet. For activities within campus that do not fall under this provision, 
 the organization shall still inform formally by writing a letter to the Office of Student 
 Affairs Coordinator about the activity. 
 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 89 

 



      
 
 c) For activities outside the campus organized or initiated by a recognized student 
 organization, prior approval must be secured from the Office of the Chancellor through 
 proper channels and endorsed by the Office of Student Affairs. 
 
 d) Students participating in activities outside the campus which are organized by non-
 recognized student organizations, either as individual student or as a representative 
 of an organization, shall inform the Office of Student Affairs of such participation and 
 with the understanding that all other requirements shall have been fulfilled (e.g. 
 waivers); 
 
 e) Permits to hold activities are to be filed three (3) working days before the activity. 
 All forms pass through prescribed proper channels. Any request shall only be 
 considered filed upon reaching the proper office for final approval. 
 
 d) The organization shall be held responsible for damage or defacement of University 
 facilities as well as orderliness and cleanliness of the premises during and 
 immediately after the activity. Solid waste management guidelines must be submitted 
 for putting up of concessionaires. Concessionaire shall pay a bond that ensures 
 cleanliness of the premises and pulling out their facilities after the event. 
 
 e) In evening affairs and activities that involve the attendance of an audience of 200 
 or more people involving non-UP constituents and/or activities that conclude after the 
 established curfew hours, the organization is required to provide for extra security 
 officers. Security guidelines must be submitted along with the general request form/
 event sheet and a list of at least ten (10) chaperones from among the ranks of faculty 
 members and administration staff also be provided. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 90 

 



 
 f) All student activities must observe curfew hours established by the school and the 
 local and national government 
 g.) For activities conducted in the campus which are open to the general public, 
 organizers will be required to submit their Security Contingency Plan, including 
 supplemental security guards and other law enforcing personnel. They are also 
 required to submit Solid Waste Management Plan, Floor plan of the stage and other 
 booths with listing of names of concessionaires. The campus security officer must 
 countersign the security contingency plan and campus development & maintenance 
 office head must countersign the Solid Waste management plan respectively before 
 the activity will be endorsed for approval by the Chancellor. 
 
  (g.a) Activities done in a contained area of the campus, such as AVR,  
  Conference Hall, Interactive Learning Center, and similar venues may be done 
  without need for supplemental security personnel, though they may opt to 
  have one at their expense; 
 
  (g.b) For activities done in multiple venues of the campus and other areas 
  other than the ones mentioned above, organizers are required to provide  
  additional security personnel, the number of which will depend on how many 
  areas of the campus will be used; 
 
  (g.c) For activities conducted at night, organizers are required to provide at 
  least two (2) additional security officers for the duration of the activity excluding 
  barangay tanods and law enforcement officers; 
 
  (g.d) All request for additional security details should be coordinated with UP 
  Cebu’s campus security officer. All expenses incurred for additional security 
  detail shall be charged to the account of the organizers. 
 
9. Income Generating Projects/ Fund Raising Activities 
 
  a. Applications for fund raising activities must indicate their specific purposes. 
  Fund raising for the enjoyment of the organization members such as parties 
  shall not be allowed. 
 
  b. Tickets or their equivalent must be numbered and must bear the signature 
  of duly authorized officers of the organization with necessary permits from 
  respective government agency (e.g. BIR, City Hall, etc.); 
 
  c. Any collection, contribution, proceeds, etc. must be duly receipted or listed. 
  They are to be accounted within two (2) weeks after the activity. The financial 
  report must be submitted to the Office of Student Affairs or in case of college 
  organizations, to the College Dean/ for high school Committee Chair of  
  Student Affairs and evidence must be shown that proceeds have been  
  expensed for the approved purpose and given to the beneficiaries, if any. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 91 

 



 
  d. Any reimbursement or procurement must be consulted with the SPMO, 
  BAC, and Accounting Office with proper approval from  authorized school  
  officials. 
        
 
10. Actionable Misconduct and Penalties 

 

These rules shall apply to all fraternities, sororities and other student organizations, 
regardless of whether or not they are officially recognized by the University and without 
prejudice to the provisions of R.A. No. 8094, otherwise known as the “Anti-Hazing Law”. 

 

Section 1 

Members and officers of fraternities, sororities and other student organizations shall be 
subject to disciplinary action for the following acts and shall be penalized as follows: 

 

A. Any such member or officer who commits or engages in, any of the acts 
specified below shall be expelled from the University whether or not the acts are 
committed within or outside University premises: 

1. Participating in any rumble, engaging in fisticuffs with, or physically attacking 
a member of other fraternities, sororities or other student organizations. 

2. Physically attacking any other student or official faculty member or employee 
of the University or any other person in connection with any matter relating to 
fraternities, sororities or other student organizations. 

A rumble is a violent confrontation between two or more students belonging to 
different fraternities, sororities or other student organizations. 
 

B. Any such member or officer who engages in any form of physical initiation or 
hazing resulting in or causing physical injury, 
as   well   as  the  neophyte   who   allows  himself/herself   to  be subjected to hazing, 
shall be expelled, unless the student concerned agrees to become a witness for the 
University. 
 

C. Any such member or officer who commits acts of provocation which result in 
heated confrontation between fraternities, sororities and other student organizations 
shall be suspended for one (1) year; provided, however, that in case the provocation 
results in a rumble, fisticuffs or a physical attack, the erring student shall be expelled 
from the University. 

 

 There is sufficient provocation when a person or party excites, incites or induces 
 another to execute an act; when one irritates or annoys one with improper or unjust 
 acts, or words or deeds that are vexing. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 92 

 



 

 There is a heated confrontation when, as a result of the immediately preceding act of 
 sufficient provocation, words are exchanged in a hostile, challenging, insulting, 
 irritating or annoying manner or conduct between the parties. 
 
 

D. Any such member or officer who exhibits gross or deliberate discourtesy to any 
University official, faculty member, employee, disciplining authorities or their agents, 
in connection with fraternity, sorority and other student organization-related incident, 
shall be suspended for at least one (1) year. 

E. Any such member or officer found carrying or possessing within university premises 
any firearm, Molotov bomb, pillbox or other explosives, knife with a blade longer than 
two and a half (2 1/2) inches, metal pipe or any other dangerous or deadly weapon 
and banned substances enumerated under the Dangerous Drugs Act (R.A. 6425, as 
amended) shall be expelled from the University; provided, however, that stones, 
baseball bats, nightsticks, rattan sticks or similar wooden instruments, paper cutter, 
tear gas, scalpels, ice picks and other similar objects capable of causing physical 
injuries shall be deemed dangerous and deadly if the erring person possesses them 
in preparation for or immediately before, during or after an attack, confrontation or 
rumble. 

 

D. Any such member or officer who wilfully fails to comply with summons by the 
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs or equivalent official in the autonomous University, 
the Student Disciplinary Tribunal, Deans or their representative for the purpose of 
investigation and other proceedings conducted in connection with fraternity, sorority 
and other student organization-related misconduct shall be automatically suspended 
by the Chancellor 

 

E. Any such member or officer who causes damage to university property or 
property of any private person within the university premises, on the occasion of a 
rumble, hazing, tumultuous affray or any similar disturbance shall be suspended for 
at least one (1) year, provided that, if any death or serious or less serious physical 
injury is caused to another person by reason of, or on the occasion of said destruction 
of property, the erring student shall be expelled from the University; provided further, 
that if university property is damaged, he/she shall be required to repair the damage 
done at his/her expense or to reimburse the University for costs incurred in repairing 
such damage and no clearance shall be issued until such damage is  fully 
compensated by the respondent. 

 

F. Any such member or officer of fraternities or sororities who recruits a college first 
year student taking a first undergraduate degree shall be suspended for at least one 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 93 

 



(1) year and the student recruited as well as all officers of the fraternities or sororities 
concerned shall likewise be suspended for a similar period. 
 

 The recruitment of two or more college first year students, in any manner, shall be 
 taken as evidence of the fraternities or sororities’ policy of recruitment in violation of 
 the foregoing provision in which case, all the officers of the fraternities or sororities 
 concerned shall be suspended for at least one (1) year. 

 

 As used in these rules, the college first years shall refer to students in the first year of 
 their undergraduate course as well as any college student who has earned not more 
 than 30 units of academic credits in any baccalaureate or certificate program or any 
 non-degree program of the University; provided that a grade of incomplete in any 
 subject or course shall not be construed as a unit earned in the said subject or course. 

 
 

G. Any such member or officer who commits any other form of fraternity, sorority and 
other student organization-related misconduct, whether within or outside university 
premises, which affects the good order and welfare of the University or which has a 
negative effect on the discipline, general welfare or the good name of the University, 
shall be suspended for not less than six (6) months but not more than one (1) year. 
 

 In case of a second offense committed under paragraph C, D, G, H and I above, the 
 erring students shall be expelled from the University. 

 

Section 2 
 

      A. In case any misconduct defined in the preceding section is committed by two 
 or more members or officers of the fraternities, sororities or student   
 organizations and a conspiracy is established, all officers of such fraternities, 
 sororities or student organizations participating in that conspiracy shall be 
 expelled from the University. 

  A conspiracy shall be deemed to exist if concerted action and unity of  
  purpose is established. 

 

B. Where the acts prohibited under this rule is committed by a member, officer or 
 agent of the fraternities, sororities or student organizations who is not a 
 student of or even if a student is not currently enrolled in the University, all 
 officers of said fraternities, sororities or student organizations shall be 
 suspended for at least one (1) year; provided that, if said acts are committed 
 by bodyguards, domestics or employees of a member or officer, such member 
 or officer and all officers of the fraternities, sororities or student organizations 
 shall be expelled from the University. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 94 

 



 

Section 3 
 

Penalties of suspension shall take effect immediately upon the finality of the decision. A 
student under suspension shall not be allowed to enrol, attend classes, take 
examinations, use university facilities or graduate during the effectivity of the suspension; 
provided that, use of university facilities shall be understood to include using library 
facilities, residing in the residence halls or dormitories owned by the University, 
undertaking field work or any other academic requirement, entering any academic 
building, etc.; provided further, that a student under suspension shall not be allowed to 
enrol until his/her suspension shall have been fully served, except when the period of 
his/her suspension expires on the last day for late registration. 

 

The period of suspension shall be counted as part of the academic residency 
requirement of the student, if for any reason the student was able to take an examination 
or submit any academic requirements during the effectivity of suspension, such 
examination or submission shall be considered invalid. 

 

Notice of suspension shall be immediately furnished to the parents and/or guardians of 
the student and all the colleges and units concerned. All concerned faculty members 
shall be immediately notified of the suspension by their respective deans, institute/center 
directors and department chairpersons, as the case may be. 

registrar 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in these rules shall preclude the disciplining 
authorities from imposing sanctions including but not limited to withdrawal or recognition 
of fraternities, sororities and other student organizations, under existing university and 
college rules and regulations. 
 
 

7.6. GENERAL GUIDELINES 
 

1. Use of OSA LCD/Equipment 
 
  a.  For use of LCD/equipment, reservation is on a first come first served basis. Only  
       recognized student organizations can borrow the equipment. (To be verified by    
       the GSS In-charge of Student Organizations). 

b. Priority on the use of the LCD/equipment is given to OSA related 
programs, services and activities. 

c. Recognized Student Organizations/Student Council may use the 
LCD/equipment upon reservation and approval of request by the OSA 
Coordinator, three (3) days prior to actual day it will be used. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 95 

 



d. A request form for the use of LCD/equipment will be accomplished by the 
borrower signed by the Adviser and approved by the OSA Coordinator. 
The UP ID or any other valid ID shall be deposited & kept with OSA until 
the equipment/LCD is returned. The borrower must sign the logbook for 
easy monitoring. 

e. The borrower must see to it that the equipment will be used properly and 
with utmost care. The VGA, power cords and remote control of the LCD 
should be at all times placed inside the bag after use. 

f. For any damage of parts, loss of cords, remote control and/or the 
equipment, it is the responsibility of the last person/borrower to replace/or 
pay for the actual damage or loss. 

g. The equipment/LCD can be borrowed only during office hours (e.g. 8 a.m. 
to 5 p.m.) free of charge and thus OSA can officially release and receive 
the requested equipment/LCD during such time. 

h. The requested equipment/LCD cannot be taken out of the campus neither 
can it be requested by any student organization for overnight use. 

i. Each Student Organization may avail of the use of LCD/equipment as 
priority borrower only once (1) a semester. The said student organization 
will be on the waiting list as borrower if it has borrowed the equipment 
more than once to give opportunity for other student organizations to avail 
of the use of equipment/LCD free of charge. 

j. The deposited-UP ID or any valid ID will be returned to the borrower once 
the equipment/LCD has been returned, checked and cleared by OSA. 

 

2. Use of U.P. Cebu-Tambayans          
 

a. The use of the campus tambayans will be from 7:00 AM to 10:00 PM. 
It is for the use of UP Cebu students, faculty, REPS and admin. staff for 
the purpose of holding meetings; group study; projects/ thesis group 
discussions, etc.; 

 

Non-UP constituents are also allowed to use the tambayan without any exclusivity. 
However, such a group or person who solely use it for a certain event or specific 
purpose, shall write a letter to the VC Admin/Chancellor to be filed at least two (2) 
days before the activity for UP constituents and at least three (3) days for non-UP 
constituents; 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 96 

 



 

                                 UP Cebu campus grounds (Photo by Bong Arboleda, UP MPRO) 
 

c. Reservations will be on a first come first served basis. During weekdays, 
approval will be at OSA level only but during weekends, approval will be 
VC Admin. level subject to payment of fees especially for non-UP 
constituents/ or activities; 

 

d. Copy of the approved letter / reservation form will be given to OSA, VC 
Admin., and Security Guard / Security Officer. Noncompliance of giving 
the copy of approved letter(s) will mean that person or groups cannot use 
or stay at the tambayans; 

 

e. For school wide activities, tambayan should be indicated in the 
reservation (general request form) as part of facilities for use (esp. 
involving use of electricity) which is subject to payment and prior approval 
by proper school authorities indicated in the GRF; 
 

f. Persons /or groups, officers of organizations who are staying and using 
the tambayans and those who are using it with or without the GRF shall 
still be held accountable and liable for any damage on the structure. The 
cleanliness and orderliness by the persons/organization and regular 
facility check and repair shall be done by CDMO. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 97 

 



 
 

g. However, all users of the tambayans (UP or non-UP) must maintain the 
cleanliness, orderliness and proper use of school facilities according to 
the existing school rules and regulations. In case of any violations on 
these guidelines, due process of investigations shall occur. The offender 
or any person/ group found out to deliberately violating said guidelines 
shall immediately repair and replace any damage done to the structure.  

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 98 

 



3. Posting at Bulletin Boards 
     a.    All materials for posting must bear the stamp approval of the appropriate office 
 and the signature of authorized school officials after the approval of a letter of 
 request to the Chancellor /or Vice Chancellor for Administration with the 
 endorsement and signature from the following person according to the type of 
 announcement: 

▪ Job Ads – GSS In Charge for Job Placement/ Job Fair 
▪ Statements – GSS In Charge for Student Organizations 
▪ Event Announcement/Contests/Call for Awards/Conference – GSS In 

Charge for Student Org 
▪ Scholarships – GSS In Charge for STS 

      b.  All materials for posting at the bulletin board must bear the name of sponsors, title 
 of activity, venue of activity and content of all relevant information; 

 

c. No materials for posting may contain libelous statement(s) or offensively 
coarse or foul language towards any person/ group and the name of the 
school. Libelous statement shall refer to defamatory, scandalous and 
slanderous words; 
 

d. It will be the responsibility of the owners of materials to post or put up their 
announcements/ statements/ ads only at the designated green colored bulletin 
boards/ poster areas and billboard subject to confirmation by CDMO or VC 
Admin.; 

 

e. Materials for posting at bulletin boards must not be larger than A3 or A4 size 
(210mm x 297mm) and not smaller than half size of the bond paper (8 ½ in x 
5.5 in). It shall be posted for a maximum of validity of 15 calendar days. 
Thereafter, said materials will be removed by the officers of the student 
organization/ company staff, Security Guard or CDMO personnel; 
 

f. Materials for posting larger than A4 bond paper size are considered streamer, 
tarpaulin, banners and shall only be posted at the areas assigned for it. Only 
one (1) streamer/tarpaulin per event can be posted for a maximum of 15 
calendar days. Thereafter, said materials will be removed by the officers of the 
student organization/ company staff, Security Guard or CDMO personnel; 

 

g. No posting will be allowed on covered walks, walls, doors, railings, windows, 
rest rooms, trees and light posts or anywhere outside the designated areas 

 
h. Violations regarding the Guidelines for Posting will be as follows: 

 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 99 

 



• First Offense – verbal reprimand to the sponsor or the one making the 
announcement 

• Second Offense – written letter of warning to the sponsor/ persons 

• Third Offense – committee investigation on the violation by the 
person, sponsor or organization. The recommendation of the 
committee will be final and executor 

 

4. University Student Council Elections  
 

a. Qualifications of Candidates (Art. VI, Sec. 1, Constitution of UP Cebu Student 
Council) 
 

1. One must be a Filipino citizen and bona fide undergraduate student of UP 
Cebu who is currently enrolled at the time of the filing of candidacy supported by 
the certified true copy of the Form 5 (certified by the OUR). 

 

2. One must have no failing grade of 5.0 and/or DRP in all subjects during the 
semester immediately preceding the elections (first semester) supported by the 
certified true copy of grades by the Office of University Registrar. *However, in 
the event that one has a grade of 4.0 or INC. it can only be allowed in just one 
subject and more than one conditional failure or incomplete grade disqualifies the 
candidate *(SEB guideline as approved by both parties.) 

 

3. One must not have been subjected to disciplinary action involving any act of 
misconduct directly affecting the welfare of the University. 

 

b. Filing of Candidacy 
 
       1. Filing of Candidacy is open to all qualified undergraduate students (as define   
       in Art. VI, Sec.1, Constitution of UP Cebu Student Council) 
 
       2. Duly qualified candidates should file their candidacy with the appropriate form   
       at the Office of Student Affairs. Final schedule and specific dates of filing of       
       candidacy are to be agreed by both parties and approved by the Student Electoral 
       Board (SEB).  
 
       3. The SEB will convene at 6p.m. on the deadline for filing of candidacy to confirm 
       the official list of qualified candidates, which will be posted the following working 
       day. 
 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 100 

 



       4. After the deadline for the filing of candidacy, no replacement shall be allowed 
       for any candidate. In case there is a withdrawal of candidacy, it shall be made in 
       writing to the SEB Chair only on the day before the SEB meets to confirm the 
       official list of qualified candidates. 

5. Only recognized student organization's name may be used as a political party 
by prospective candidates. 

 

c. Campaign Strategies 
 

1. Campaign managers and members of the party list directly involved must be 
currently enrolled during the semester. 

 

2. The official campaign period will be determined by the SEB. Posters, sample 
ballots, and position papers are allowed as long as distribution of said materials do 
not interfere with the normal routine of classes. Posters/ campaign materials are 
allowed to be posted only at the specifically designated places/ areas (per posting 
guidelines of campaign materials). 

 
3.  A room-to-room campaign within the campaign period will be allowed subject 
to approval by the Chancellor from on specified dates. Each party and independent 
candidates are allowed a maximum of 10 minutes only with the proper permission 
from faculty handling the class. 
 
4. The candidates are allowed to campaign anywhere inside the campus only 
within the prescribed campaign period and provided that classes are not disrupted 
and disturbed. 
 
5. An election bond of Php 300.00 per party or per individual if independent, is 
required. It will be returned after all campaign materials have been removed.  
 
6. Students ' grand rally will be held on a specified date by the SEB from 1p.m. to 
5p.m. with the purpose of presentation by the different candidates and their 
respective platforms. SC shall write a letter of request to the Chancellor endorsed 
by SEB Chairperson in order to request (ACLE) alternative class learning 
exercise/activity. 
 
7. Violations of the guidelines regarding campaign strategies, the following 
sanctions will be imposed: 
 
  a. First offense – verbal reprimand to be given by any member of the 
      Student Electoral Board 

  b. Second offense – written warning to be given by the Student      
      Electoral Board 

             c. Third offense – will not be allowed to do room-to-room campaign 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 101 

 



 
8. A written complaint should be submitted to the electoral board signed by 3 
witnesses. 
 

d. Conduct of Elections 
 
  1. All undergraduate students of UP Cebu who are officially enrolled for the 

 second semester for the Academic Year have the right to vote on the election’s 
 day. 

 
       2. The election will be held on at a specified date set by the SEB (based on 

 the SC constitution) w/no lunch break at the AS Conf. Hall Canvassing will be 
 at the AS Conference Hall on the same day. Party poll watchers should be 
 present before the ballot boxes will be closed for the start of polling and before 
 ballot boxes are opened for canvassing. 

 
    3. The voting procedures are as follows: 
 

 a. Make sure your name is found in the official list of students who are 
 qualified to vote 
 
 b. Present your UP Form 5 or Invoice or U.P. I.D. or any other valid ID 
 (Library/ TLRC) for verification purposes by the Students Electoral 
 Board. 
 
 c. Affix your signature on the control sheet prepared by the Electoral 
 Board and the Office of Student Affairs GSS as soon as you receive 
 your official ballot. 
 
 d. Accomplish the ballot by shading the circle just before the name of 
 the candidate of your choice. For corrections, pls. erase completely 
 and shade the new choice. 
 
 e. Affix your thumb mark on the ballot and drop your ballot into the box 
 designated for each cluster. Again, affix your signature on the same 
 control sheet after casting your vote. 
 

     4. Only members of the Student Electoral Board and two (2) official party poll 
 watchers are allowed within the designated area of the precinct. 
 

e. Canvassing of Ballots and Election Results 
 

 1. The canvassing of ballots will start at a time determined by the SEB    and 
 shall be conducted by the SEB in the presence of two (2) official party poll 
 watchers representing each of the political party/ independent candidates. It 
 can also be viewed by other UP constituents outside the precinct. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 102 

 



 
 2. Any unnecessary marks, comments or erasures written on the ballot will 
 nullify it. Ballots with no thumb marks will also be invalidated. 
 
 3. Election protests must be officially filed in writing addressed to the Chair, 
 Students Electoral Board (SEB) until a specified time the following day after 
 the elections.  

  
f. Proclamation of Winners 
 

 After the proclamation of winners, they will have to wait for proper turn over 
 and submission of the election reports for review and approval of the 
 Chancellor. The Induction to the Office of the University Student Council will 
 be set subject to the availability of the Chancellor which shall be the signal of 
 the new term of the new set of USC officers for the specified academic/school 
 year. 
  
Note: Students Electoral Board has the sole authority in terms of conduct and 
decisions on the elections which is composed of Chair- Vice Chancellor for 
Academic Affairs; Vice Chair-OSA Coordinator & GSS In Charge of Student Org-
Secretariat & 2 Faculty and 3 Student Reps who are Non-partisan or with no 
political affiliation. 

 
 
5. Selection of the Tug-ani Editor-in-Chief 

a. Qualifications of the Tug-ani Editor in Chief 
The post of the Editor-in-Chief is open to all undergraduate students of the 
University of the Philippines (UP) Cebu, provided that he or she has no failing 
grade (5.0), conditional failure (4.0) or incomplete grade of the previous 
semester (from date of selections 2nd semester) and of good moral character 
meaning has not been found guilty of any disciplinary charges.  
 

b. Appointment of the Selection Board/ Committee for Tug-ani EIC 

The Office of the Chancellor shall appoint three (3) faculty representatives and 
one (1) student representative to compose the Tug-ani Editor-in-Chief 
Selection Board, who will finalize the guidelines for the written exam and panel 
interview, which all applicants will be required to undertake and undergo. 
 

c. Posting of Announcements  
The posting of announcement for Selection of the Editor-in-Chief will be on 
specified date in  March. 
It is open to all undergraduate students of the University of the Philippines (UP) 
Cebu, provided that he or she has no failing, conditional or incomplete grade of the 
previous semester and of good moral character. The deadline for accepting of 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 103 

 



applicants for EIC will be set (as indicated in the Tug-ani Constitution and By-laws 
as endorsed by Chancellor and approved by BOR). 

  
d. Selection Process – Written Exams and Panel Interview 

For the EIC selection process, the written exams will be administered by the Office 
of Student Affairs (OSA) GSS in-charge of Student Organization/Activities for four 
(4) hours. However, written exams will be prepared by the Faculty Chair / or 
representative in the Selections committee (preferably faculty who has experience 
in student publications and journalism) 2 days before the actual date for test 
administration. Applicants shall encode their exam answers in the computer at 
TLRC to facilitate the checking of article length and the review and checking of 
papers by the selection board. The candidate will indicate only his or her pen 
name in the exam papers. Before the results are released, only the OSA GSS 
will know the real identities behind the pen names. After which, the shortlist of 
candidates will undergo the panel interview by all members of the Selections 
Committee. 

  
Written exam (total: 300 points) 
(a.) News writing (100 pts.) 
(b.) Editorial writing (100 pts.) 
(c.) Feature writing (100 pts.) 
Panel Interview (total: 100 points) 
a.) The candidates should prepare the following and present these during 
the interview: 
 
-Portfolio containing the updated curriculum vitae, written works 
(journalistic, literary or others), and proof of published works (i.e. student 
publication, newspapers, blogs or other media) 
 
-Dummy or prototype of the Tug-ani redesigned to reflect the innovations 
and changes he or she is proposing to carry out with his editorial team 

 

6.   Use of U.P Cebu facilities 
 

                      (Fill up the General Request Form / Event Sheet) 
  

a. The use of classrooms for the sole purpose of holding meetings of UP       
recognized        student organization, from 8:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. approval at the 
OSA level only. However,  if activity is related to class activity which goes 
beyond 5:30 p.m. on weekdays and Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, they 
are subject to written approval made by the Dean/Chancellor. 

b. Reservations have to be filed at least three (3) working days before the actual 
date of the activity for UP constituents and at least seven (7) working days/ 
one week before the actual date of the activity for non-UP personnel/activities. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 104 

 



Any request shall only be considered filed upon reaching the proper office for its 
final approval. In any case, unit wide UP Cebu activities will supersede any prior 
reservations; 
 

c. Reservations will be on a first come first served basis. Reservation with CDMO 
can be made in advance, but it can only be considered a valid reservation if 
activity has been approved in writing and reservation form has been duly 
accomplished; In case of conflict, the one who filed late has to request for 
reconsideration from the one who filed earlier. 
 

d. Copy of the signed gen. request form (GRF) will be given to OSA, VC Admin., 
and Head, Security Guard / Security Officer. Maximum of one (1) week is 
allowable for reservations of Conf. Hall, AVR 1 and AVR 2, Union building but 
subject to renewal if activity is beyond one (1) week. Long term reservations are 
not allowed (e.g. 1-3 months from June to August); 

 

e. Activities which will disturb classes and offices shall not be allowed. 
Otherwise, the appropriate UP officials may revoke such permit and halt the 
activity immediately. Eating and drinking inside the Arts & Science Conference 
Halls, AVR 1 & 2, & Performing Arts Hall are also strictly prohibited. 

 

f. The AS Conference Hall, Performing Arts Hall, AVR 1 & 2 cannot be used for 
activity involving children below 1 year old and infants. 
 

g. For income generating activities, sponsoring organization shall pay for the use 
of air con, electricity, and other facilities among others in consultation with 
Accounting Office for computation of rates. 
 

h. Honoraria, & overtime of Technician & Utility personnel rendering services 
after office hours will be paid by the sponsoring organization/office.\GRF will be 
made available in UP website. Flow of signatory: (1) Faculty Adviser/Dean of 
College (2) OSA-for student org/OUR for-classroom use (3) CDMO for all spaces, 
PAH/AVR1, AS-PE & SSC/ Cos for AVR2 (4) Vice Chancellor for Admin/or 
Chancellor for final approval 

 

7.  Local Off-campus Activities 

Before the off-campus activity 

A.  In accordance to the CHED Memorandum Order (CMO) No. 63 Series of 2017, 
UP Cebu requires the faculty/personnel in-charge  and stakeholders to comply with 
the following requirements to the Office of the Chancellor through “Report of 
Compliance Form” (See Appendix Form 1) with necessary attachment one month 
before the conduct of an off campus activity. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 105 

 



Student Organization Activities must have their compliance checked by the GSS-in 
charge of Student organizations, before it is presented to the OSA Director for 
endorsement to the VCAA and then to Chancellor. 

As for the Class-related activity, compliance is checked by the Department 
Chair/Coordinator before it is presented to the Dean for endorsement to the VCAA 
and then to Chancellor. 

REQUIREMENTS  PROOF 

1. Curriculum Requirement - Course Syllabus which reflects 
The curriculum should include the relevance of requiring an 
the off-campus activity with educational tour and field trip 

corresponding unit credits and 
time-allotment whether lecture 
or laboratory hours, specifying 
course title and unit credits 

2. Destination - As much as Appropriate Report 
practicable, the destination of 
off campus activities should be 
near the concerned HEI in 
order minimize cost.  The 
destination and schedule 
should be relevant to subject 
matter.  
3. Consent/Waiver of the Parents’ Consent (See 
Parents or Student's Appendix Form 2) –for 
Guardian  Curricular activities, interschool 

competitions/tournaments or 
culture and arts performances 
and competition 

 

School Waiver Form (See 
Appendix Form 3) – for 
activities initiated by 
Recognized Student 
Organizations. 

4. Medical Clearance of Medical Clearance of the 
Students students if appropriate (in case 

of strenuous activities) duly 
signed by the HEI or 
government physician 

5. First Aid Kit First Aid Kit 
A complete First Aid Kit should 
be prepared and brought 
during the activity.  

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 106 

 



6. Personnel in-charge - The • List of PIC with designation 
designated personnel-in- • Relevant certificate on first-
charge (PIC) must be an aid training 
employee of the institution and 
must have appropriate 
qualifications and experiences 
related to off campus 
activities. When necessary, 
identify overall leader from 
among the PICs.  At least one 
PIC must have appropriate 
first-aid and medical 
emergency training. The ratio 
of the PIC to students must be 
1:20. 
7. Fees and Fund Source - Appropriate Report 
The fees to be collected from 
the students must be duly 
approved and disseminated to 
concerned stakeholders. 
There should be a breakdown 
of fund sources and other 
resources properly secured 
and accounted for.  
8. Insurance-  The HEI should Proof of Insurance Provision 

provide insurance (individual 
or group)  provision for 
students, faculty, and other 
concerned stakeholders for 
the purpose of the activity 

9.  Mobility of Students Updated /valid 
documents  pertaining to 
registration, 
insurance  coverage, driver's 
license, assurance of 
roadworthiness, etc.  

10. LGUs/NGOs - The • Copy of letter sent to LGU;  
PIC/students should duly • Copy of 
coordinate with appropriate acknowledgement  letter 
LGUs/NGOs. Whenever from LGUs 
necessary for the safety and 
convenience of the touring 
party, advance proper 
coordination  with the local 
government units with 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 107 

 



acknowledged letter  from  the 
concerned government 
agency shall be secured 
before the scheduled date of 
the activity  

11. Activities - • Itinerary of Activities 
Announcement to 
students/stakeholders must 
be done at least 1 month 
before the scheduled date of 
activity. The students and 
stakeholders must have a 
briefing to provide the needed 
information and materials 
before the trip.  
12. Emergency  Appropriate Report 
Preparedness Plan - An 
emergency Preparedness 
Plan must be in place   and be 
given to the students and 
stakeholders.  This 
Emergency Plan must contain 
Emergency contact numbers 
(e.g. nearest hospital, police 
station), and steps that would 
be taken in case someone is 
injured or lost. 

A. Certificate of Compliance. After the submission of Report of Compliance, A 
Certificate of Compliance (See Appendix Form 4) duly notarized, certified correct by 
the PIC, recommending approval by the VCAA and duly approved by the Chancellor 
stating that all the requirements have been prepared and duly complied using the 
prescribed template shall be secured by the PIC. 

During the off-campus activity 

The following requirements should be submitted to the Dean of the College (for curricular 
activities) or to the Office of Student Affairs (for S.O. activities): 

 

REQUIREMENTS PROOF 

1. Personnel-in charge, identify overall leader • List of 
(when necessary) with the following tasks: personnel or 
a. accompany students from  the time they attendance 
assemble for the off campus activity up to • List of students 
debriefing  and/or 

attendance 
  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 108 

 



b. ensure the provision of the allowable 
seating capacity of vehicle/s used (No students 
shall be allowed to ride on the roof of motor vehicle 
or on the boarding platform)  
c. ensure that the program  of activities is 
properly followed as planned or activities can be 
adjusted as the need arises 

 
 

After the off-campus activity 

The following requirements should be submitted to the Dean of the College (for curricular 
activities) or to the Office of Student Affairs (for S.O. activities): 

 

REQUIREMENTS PROOF 

1. Learning journals/ output of Appropriate Report/grades 

students 
2. Assessment report/Evaluation Assessment Report by faculty 
Report including breakdown of 

expenses 

3. Expenditure Report Breakdown of expenses 

4. Debriefing of concerned faculty to Report on debriefing program 
students to be able to assess acquisition conducted 

of learning 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 109 

 



8. USE OF DORMITORY FACILITIES 

PICTURES OF UP CEBU DORMITORIES 

LIADLAW HALL 

 

 

 

 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 110 

 



 

 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 111 

 



 

 

LIHANGIN HALL  

 

 

 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 112 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 113 

 



 

 

 

 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 114 

 



 

 

Bathroom and Comfort Room  

 

 

 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 115 

 



Capacity per Dormitory 

LIADLAW HALL  

Total # 
# of Capacity for Aircon # of Capacity for Non # of Capacity 

Floor level of 
Rooms Aircon per floor per floor level 

Capacity 

 Female Male Female Male   

1st Floor 2 4 24 24 54  

2nd 4 4 24 24 56  

3rd 4 4 24 24 56  

4th 4 4 24 24 56  

Total 14 16 96 96 222  

Total Rooms  

Female 14  96  110 
222 

Male  16  96 112 

 

Lihangin Hall  - Female 

First Floor 8 Double Deck Bed 16 pax 

Second Floor  11 Double Deck Beds 22 pax 

Total 38 pax 

   
Lihangin Hall - Male 

First Floor 8 Double Deck Bed 16 pax 

Second Floor  11 Double Deck Beds 22 pax 

Total 38 pax 

 
  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 116 

 



I. 4-Storey Dormitory Building 

Room Type Monthly Rate per Person 

3,975.00 (local students) 

(2 pax per room) 
Special (A/C) 

7,950.00 (foreign/exchange students) 

(2 pax/room) 

2,300.00 
Regular (Fan) 

(4 pax per room) 

 
Note:    

a.  Amount indicated is for rental only.  

b.  With submeter for electricity in each room  

c.  Free water  

 

II. Greenovate   P500.00/person/month 

Note: 

a. Amount indicated is for rental only. 

b. Free water and light 

c. Charges for gadgets remain the same 

 

Monthly rate for gadgets (This applies to Greenovate Residents) 

Computer/Laptop : P100.00 Printer  : P100.00 

Tablet   : P50.00  Cellphone :      P50.00 

Electric Fan  : P50.00  Study Lamp :     P50.00 

Power Bank  : P50.00  Radio/Cassette: P50.00 

Wireless Headphones: P20.00  Smart Watch :     P20.00 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 117 

 



  

      Documents to be submitted depending on employment status of parents:  

  

  Status Forms to Submit  

2021 Income Tax return of BOTH parents if 
1 BOTH parents are working filing separately; OR certificate of 

employment of BOTH parents with income 

BOTH parents are engaged in a 
business, or ONE is handling a 2021 Income Tax return of business and /or 

2 
business while the other is not affidavit of no work for the other parent 
employed 

2021 Income Tax return of BOTH parents 
3 BOTH parents are self-employed OR affidavit of self-employment of BOTH 

parents with amount of income stated 

2021 ITR OR certification of employment of 
ONE parent is working, while the parent working with stated income AND 

4 
the OTHER IS NOT affidavit of no work for the other parent OR 

Certificate of Tax Exemption from BIR 

2021 ITR of parent AND affidavit or single 
5 SINGLE-PARENT 

parent ID 

Certificate of work with income OR copy of 
6 BOTH parents are working ABROAD the contract, should be issued within the last 

six months 

2021 ITR of family member giving support 
RECEIVING SUPPORT FROM 

7 OR certification of employment with stated 
FAMILY MEMBER 

income 

RECEIVING SUPPORT FROM A 
Affidavit stating previous job AND amount of 

8 FAMILY MEMBER WHO IS RETIRED 
pension being received 

ALREADY 

2021 ITR OR certification of employment 
9 WORKING STUDENT 

with stated income 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 118 

 



Affidavit stating job before retirement AND 
10 BOTH parents are RETIRED amount of monthly pension OR copy of 

pension certificate with amount 

Affidavit of self-support, include sources of 
11 SELF-SUPPORTING 

income to finance education 

BOTH parents 
Affidavit stating sources of income to support 

are WORKING and DOES NOT 
12 the education of child OR Certificate of Tax 

HAVE ITR OR ANY PROOF OF 
Exemption form BIR 

INCOME 

 

Office of Student Affairs (OSA) 
ASST. PROF. MA. ALENA N. MACASIL, MS 
Director of the Office of Student Affairs 
Email: osa.upcebu@up.edu.ph  
Contact No.: (032) 2328187 local 115 

 

8. TEACHING & LEARNING RESOURCE CENTER (TLRC) 
 

The TLRC is an academic center that provides instructional assistance and enrichment 
programs designed to enable students to meet the demands of a UP education especially in 
the areas of Communication, Science and Mathematics. 

 

 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 119 

 



 
Instructional assistance and enrichment are possible in the following forms: 

 
1. Self-tutorial Modules 

Modules in Mathematics (Algebra, Trigonometry, Calculus), Communication, Biology, 
Chemistry (Gen. Inorganic Chemistry; Organic Chemistry) and Natural Science (I & II) 
may be availed of at the TLRC during office hours. 

 
     Module users have to accomplish the monitoring sheet before every module use.   

 Modules for overnight use may be checked out at 4:00 pm and must be promptly 
 returned at 8:00 am the next day. A fine of P50/day or a fraction of a day will be 
 imposed on the late return of modules used overnight. College and TLRC ID's have 
 to be submitted upon checking out of modules. 

 
 Lending of modules for overnight use will be suspended during the Final Exams week 

 of every semester. 
 

2. Compact Discs (CDs) 
 CD's in Mathematics, History, Chemistry, Accounting, Language, Health, Natural 

 Science, Pre-Algebra, Algebra (I, II), Geometry, History, Literature, Geography, 
 Vocabulary, Typing, Trigonometry, Pre-Calculus, Calculus, Statistics, Science 
 Encyclopaedia (Life Sciences, Chemistry, Physics and Mathematics) are available at 
 the TLRC Study Room. Assistance in the use of the CD with the CD ROM and the 
 computer may be requested from the TLRC staff anytime during office hours. 

 
3. Computers 

 Twelve (12) computers are available for student's use. The installed computer 
 programs that are available include Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Query, PageMaker, 
 Paintbrush, RMiner, Typing Tutor, and SPSS. 

 
 The computers are free to use for currently enrolled students.  
 

 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 120 

 



 

4. Internet and e-mail 
 Internet access and e-mail services may be availed of at the TLRC for free during 

 office hours, Monday to Friday from 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM. 
 

5. Face-to-face tutorials 
Either one-on-one tutorials or group tutorials on all academic courses, computer and 
internet use may be availed at the TLRC by arrangement. Faculty tutors are available 
during their consultation hours. Students interested in being peer tutors have to   enlist 
with the TLRC Coordinator. Semesterly review programs which happen multiple times 
a week prior to examination month are offered by the office free of charge. enlist with 
the TLRC Coordinator. 

 
6. Life Skills Development/Guidance Services 
 In coordination with the Office of Student Affairs (OSA), the TLRC likewise assists 

 students adjust to the academic environment and provide avenues for personal 
 growth and psychological development. 

 
 Copies of the Psychosocial Development modules are also on-hand for individual 

 students use during their convenient time. For matters needing urgent 
 action/assistance, you may approach the TLRC Coordinator or OSA Coordinator or 
 any of the Guidance Services Specialists. 

 
7. Special Skills 
 
 Your requests for the use of any TLRC's equipment and facilities for skill development 

 must be in writing addressed to the TLRC Coordinator. Reservation papers must be 
 accomplished and filed at two days prior to the actual use. Student enrichment 
 programs and short seminars are also being offered by the office every semester. 
 Schedules and topics are regularly posted at the TLRC Bulletin Board or at the UP 
 Cebu TLRC Website.  

 

Teaching and Learning Resource Center (TLRC) 
Email: lrc.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
Contact No.: (032) 2328187 local 314 

 

     9. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY CENTER  
 

Introduction  

The Information Technology Center of the University of the Philippines Cebu shall ensure the 
safety, security, and well-being of the constituents of the university's constituents, along with 
the maintenance and security of the campuses' information technology resources. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 121 

 



Policy  

The Information Technology Center of the University of the Philippines is mandated to provide 
its services under the office's policy. Listed below are the different policies on the acceptable 
use of the various Information Technology resources of the University of the Philippines 
System. 

  

1. Policy Statement 
1. Computers and networks are powerful technologies for accessing and 

distributing information and knowledge. They are strategic technologies for the 
current and future needs of the UP SYSTEM. 

2. For now, computing facilities and network infrastructure are costly resources 
and thus must be used solely for teaching, learning, research, and other 
officially-sanctioned activities. Since these technologies allow individuals to 
access and copy information from remote sources, users must respect the 
rights of others, particularly their privacy and intellectual property. There is, 
therefore, a need for rules and regulations to ensure equitable, secure, and 
reliable access to these resources. The following regulations will govern the 
use of computing facilities, networks, and other Information Technology (IT) 
resources of the University of the Philippines System. 

3. Furthermore, these regulations are established, we shall aim to: 
1. Ensure an information infrastructure that shall promote the basic 

missions of the UP System in teaching, learning, and research; 
2. Protect the integrity, reliability, availability, confidentiality, and efficiency 

of the IT resources of the UP System; 
3. Establish a process and system needed for addressing policy violations 

and providing sanctions for the violators; 
4. Emphasize that the UP System shall not be liable for any damages that 

are incurred from the use of the IT resources and for any claims and 
suits arising from the unauthorized and irresponsible use of the same; 

5. Warn users that the use of IT resources for partisan political activities 
as defined in the relevant rules and regulations of the civil service 
commission or the University of the Philippines or for any unauthorized 
commercial purposes is prohibited; and 

6. Notify users of the existence of such policies established. 
 

2. Basic Standards 
1. The same standards and principles of intellectual and academic freedom 

developed for university libraries shall be applied to material received from the 
network. The same standards of intellectual and academic freedom developed 
for any faculty and student publication in traditional media shall be applied to 
publication in computer media. 

2. As constituents of the academic community, faculty, students, and academic 
and non-academic staff should be free, individually and collectively, to express 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 122 

 



their views on issues of institutional policy and on matters of general interest to 
the academic body. The constituents of the academic community should have 
clearly defined means to participate in the formulation and application of 
institutional policy affecting academic and student affairs. The actions of the 
constituents of the academic community within the areas of its jurisdictions 
should be reviewed only through orderly prescribed procedures. 

 
3. Definition of Terms 

1. Agreement Form shall refer to the document in which the user undertakes to 
comply with all established policies of the offices. The said form may be 
electronic in form. 

2. Confidential Information shall refer to the data or information that, on its face, 
is not intended for unrestricted dissemination. The information can be in the 
form of but is not limited to student records, examination archives, proprietary 
technical information, disciplinary case records, and administrative records. 

3. Document shall refer to both the paper and electronic format of documentation. 
4. Information Technology System or IT System includes computers, terminals, 

printers, networks, modem banks, online and offline storage media and related 
equipment, and software, databases, and other data files that are owned, 
managed or maintained by any unit of the University of the Philippines. 

              

For the purpose of these documents, any other equipment, computer unit, or external network, 
when attached to or used to access and/or interact with any component of the IT System, shall 
be considered as part of the system as a whole. 

1. Private file shall refer to the information that the user would reasonably regard as 
private. Examples may include but are not limited to the contents of electronic 
mailboxes, private file storage of individual users, and information stored in other areas 
that are not public, even if no measure has been taken to protect such information. 

2. System and Network Administrator shall refer to a person designated to manage a 
particular system assigned to them to oversee the day-to-day operation of the system 
or to preliminary determine who is permitted to access the system and its particular 
facilities and resources, whether they may be hired on a temporary, contractual or 
permanent basis. 

3. UP System shall refer to the University of the Philippines System and all its constituent 
units. 

4. User shall refer any person, whether authorized or not, who shall make use of the IT 
System or any of its components by any means or from any location. 
 

5. Scope and Applicability 
1. General Coverage 

1. The established policies shall apply to all facilities within the IT System 
and all its users. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 123 

 



2. All users shall be made aware of the different regulations and shall 
realize that when using the computer within the UP System, the users 
are bound by these regulations. Users may be required to sign a form 
of agreement to comply with the established policies. However, failure 
to sign the agreement form will not release users from the coverage of 
this Policy. 

 
 

2. Local and External Conditions of Use 
1. Individual units within the UP System may define the additional 

"conditions of use" for components of the IT System that are under their 
control and mandate. 

2. These additional conditions must be consistent with this overall policy 
but may provide additional detail, guidelines, restrictions, and/or 
enforcement mechanisms. These units will be made responsible for 
publishing the regulations they establish and their policies concerning 
the authorized and appropriate use of all equipment for which they are 
responsible. Copies of these policies shall be given to the offices of the 
President, Vice President for Development, the Intellectual Property 
Office, and the Office of Legal Services. 

3. Where the use of external networks is involved, policies governing such 
use will be applicable and must be adhered to. 

1. General Responsibilities of Users 

In general, users of the IT System must:  

●   Use the IT System only for its intended purpose and must refrain from misusing or 
abusing it. 

●   Maintain the integrity, reliability, availability, confidentiality, and efficiency of computer-
based information resources; 

●   Refrain from seeking to gain unauthorized access or exceed authorized access; 

●   Respect the software's copyright and licenses and other intellectual property rights; 

●   Respect the rights of other computer users; and 

●   Be aware that although computing and information technology providers throughout 
the university are charged with preserving the integrity and security of resources, 
security sometimes can be breached through actions beyond their control. Users are 
therefore urged to take appropriate precautions such as safeguarding their account 
and password, taking full advantage of file security mechanisms, backing up critical 
data, and promptly reporting any misuse or violations of the Policy.                          

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 124 

 



Every constituent of the university community has an obligation to report suspected violations 
of the  Acceptable Use Policy for the Information Technology of the UP System or any of its 
units. Reports shall be directed to the system and network administrators, University Chairs, 
University Deans, University Chancellors of the President. 

Appropriate Use 

1. Appropriate Use 

Users may only use the IT System for its authorized and intended purposes, which is to 
support the research, education, clinical, administrative, and other functions of the UP 
SYSTEM. The particular purposes of any of the components of the IT System, as well as the 
nature and scope of authorizing incidental personal use, may vary according to the duties and 
responsibilities of the user. 

Proper Authorization 

Users may access only those facilities and components of the IT System that are consistent 
with their authorization coming from competent authorities.  

Specific Prescriptions of Use 

The following categories of use of the IT System are prohibited and/or inappropriate. 

1. Uses Contrary to Law 
2. Unlawful Use. Users may not use the IT System for any activity that is contrary to any 

law or administrative rule or regulation or to encourage any such unlawful activity. 
Violators shall suffer a penalty ranging from suspension for one year to expulsion or 
dismissal. 

3. Infringement of protected material. Users must not infringe on the copyright and other 
property rights covering software, databases, and all other copyrighted material such 
as text, images, and icons, retrieved from or through the IT System. These acts shall 
include but are not limited to the unauthorized copying, reproduction, dissemination, 
distribution, importation, use, removal, alteration, substitution, modification, storage, 
unloading, downloading, communication, publication, or broadcasting of such material. 
Users must properly attribute any material they copy from or through the IT System. 
Users are reminded that the infringement of intellectual property rights belonging to 
others through the use of telecommunications networks is a criminal offense under 
Section 33(b) of the Electronic Commerce Act. Violators shall suffer a penalty ranging 
from suspension for one month to expulsion or dismissal. 

4. Hacking. Users may not use the IT System to gain unauthorized access to or interfere 
with another computer, system, server, information, or communication system or to 
obtain any access in order to corrupt, alter, steal or destroy any such system or 
information within such system or to introduce viruses. Users are reminded that all of 
the foregoing acts constitute the crime of Hacking under Section 33(a) of the Electronic 
Commerce Act and are punishable by mandatory imprisonment and/or a fine. Violators 
Acceptable Use Policy of the UP System 7 shall suffer a penalty ranging from 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 125 

 



suspension for one year to expulsion or dismissal. The penalty shall carry with it the 
permanent withdrawal of all IT privileges. 

5. Uses Inconsistent With the Purposes of the UP System 
6. Cheating. Users may not use the IT System to engage in cheating or academic 

dishonesty. Acts prohibited under this provision include but are not limited to the 
following: 

1. Copying a computer file that contains another person's work and submitting it 
for one's own credit; 

2. Copying a computer file that contains another person's work and using it as a 
model for one's own work. 

3. Collaborating on work, sharing the computer files and submitting the shared 
file, or a modification thereof, as one's individual work, when the work is 
supposed to be done individually; and 

4. Communicating with another person online during the conduct of an 
examination. Violators shall suffer a penalty of suspension for not less than one 
semester. Students found guilty of cheating shall be barred from graduation 
with honors, even if their weighted average is within the requirement of 
graduation with honors. 

7. Political Use. Users may not use the IT System for any partisan political activities. 
Violators shall suffer a penalty ranging from suspension for one month to one year. 

8. Unauthorized commercial use.         
1. Users may not use the IT System for commercial purposes, except as permitted 

under other written policies of the UP System or with the written approval of a 
competent authority. 

2. Violators shall suffer a penalty ranging from suspension for one month to one 
year with an established fine to be settled. If the violator is a student, the fine 
shall be P1000.00 or the amount equivalent to the earnings. 

9. Personal Use. Users may not use the IT System for personal activities not related to 
appropriate functions of the University except in a purely incidental manner. Violators 
shall suffer a penalty ranging from suspension for one month to one year. 

10. Unauthorized gaming or entertainment. Users may not play games or use 
entertainment software on or through the IT System unless authorized in writing by 
competent authorities. Violators shall suffer a penalty ranging from suspension for one 
week to one year, provided that the penalty for the habitual offense shall be expulsion 
or dismissal. The presence of game software or any part thereof may be presumptive 
evidence of unauthorized gaming or entertainment. 

Uses That Damage The Integrity, Reliability, Confidentiality, And Efficiency Of The IT 
System 
 

1. Software and hardware installation and removal. Unless properly authorized, users 
may not destroy, remove, modify or install any computer equipment, peripheral, 
operating system, disk partition, software, database, or other components of the IT 
System; or connect any computer unit or external network to the IT System. Violators 
shall suffer a penalty ranging from suspension for one month to expulsion. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 126 

 



2. Unauthorized or destructive programs. Unless properly authorized and part of their 
administrative or academic duties, users may not develop or use programs on the IT 
System that are may or are intended to: 

1. Interfere with the ability of the UP System to enforce these policies. 
2. Damage any software or hardware component of the system. 
3. Modify normally protected or restricted portions of the system or user accounts. 
4. Access private or restricted portions of the system; or 
5. Interfere with or disrupt other computer users. Violators shall suffer a penalty 

ranging from suspension for one year to expulsion. 
3. Destructive acts. Users may not attempt to crash, tie up, or deny any service on the IT 

System. Violators shall suffer a penalty ranging from suspension for one year to 
expulsion. 

4. Unauthorized access. Users may not attempt to gain or enable unauthorized access 
and exceed authorized access to the IT System or to other networks or systems of 
which the IT System is a part. Violators shall suffer a penalty ranging from suspension 
for one year to expulsion. 

5. Password Protection. A user who has been authorized to use a password-protected 
account may not disclose such information on their password or otherwise makes the 
account available to others without the permission of the system administrator. 
Violators shall suffer a penalty ranging from suspension for one week to one year. 

6. Concealing access. Users may not conceal, delete, or modify information or records 
pertaining to access to the IT System at the time of access or alter system logs after 
such access for the purpose of concealing identity or unauthorized use. Users may not 
conceal their own identity or masquerade as other users when accessing, sending, 
receiving, processing, or storing through one on the IT System. Violators shall suffer a 
penalty ranging from suspension for one year to expulsion. 

7. Prohibited material. Users may not publish (on mailing lists, bulletin boards, and the 
World Wide Web) or disseminate prohibited materials over, or store such information 
on the IT System. Prohibited materials under this provision include but are not limited 
to the following: 

1. Any collection of passwords, personal identification numbers (PINs), private 
digital certificates, credit card numbers, or other secure identification 
information. 

2. Any material that enables others to gain authorized access to a computer 
system. This may include instructions for gaining such access, computer code, 
or other devices. This would effectively preclude displaying items such as 
"Hackers Guides," etc. 

3. Any material that permits an unauthorized user who has gained access to a 
system to carry out any modification of the computer programs or data stored 
in the system; and 

4. Any materials that incite or encourage others to carry out unauthorized access 
to or modification of a computer system. Violators shall suffer a penalty ranging 
from suspension for one year to expulsion. 

 
 
 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 127 

 



Uses that Encroach on the Rights of the Users 
8. Wasteful and destructive purposes. Users may not encroach on others' access and 

use of the IT System through wasteful and destructive practices such as but not limited 
to the following: 

1. Sending chain letters or excessive messages, including spamming, either 
locally or off-campus; violators shall suffer a penalty ranging from suspension 
for one week to one month; spamming includes the act of (1) repeated cross-
posting the same message to as many newsgroups or mailing lists as possible, 
whether or not the message is germane to the stated topic of the newsgroups 
or mailing lists targeted, (2) maliciously sending out of unsolicited email in bulk, 
or (3) sending large unwanted or unnecessary files to a single email address. 

2. Printing excess copies of documents, files, data, or programs; violators shall 
suffer a penalty ranging from suspension for one week to one month; 

3. Running grossly inefficient programs when efficient alternatives are known by 
the user to be available; violators shall suffer a penalty ranging from suspension 
for one week to one month; 

4. Using more than one computer terminal at a time unless specifically authorized 
by a competent authority. Faculty members whose duties require the use of 
more than one computer shall be exempted. Violators shall suffer a penalty 
ranging from suspension for one week to one year; 

9. Locking public access computers using screen savers or otherwise, unless specifically 
authorized by competent authority; violators shall suffer a penalty ranging from 
suspension for one week to one month; 

10. Not logging out of the system to allow other users to make use of the public access 
computer; violators shall suffer a penalty ranging from suspension for one week to one 
month; and 

11. Using a service that has been identified by the System Administrator as causing an 
excessive amount of traffic on the IT System or its external network links, violators 
shall suffer a penalty ranging from suspension for one week to one year. 

12. Offensive material 
1. Users may not use the facilities of the IT System to produce, disseminate, or 

display material that could be considered offensive, pornographic, racially 
abusive, or libelous in nature. 

2. Users may not use electronic communication facilities (such as mail, chat, or 
systems with similar functions) to send messages which are fraudulent, 
maliciously harassing, obscene, threatening, or in violation of laws, 
administrative rules and regulations, or other policies of the University System 
or its constituent universities. Violators shall suffer a penalty ranging from 
suspension for one month to expulsion or dismissal. 

13. Inappropriate messages. Users may not send to a mailing list, including local or 
network newsgroups and bulletin boards, any unsolicited material inconsistent with the 
list's purpose. Users of an electronic mailing list are responsible for determining the 
purpose of the list before sending messages to or receiving messages from the list. 
Subscribers to an electronic mailing list are deemed to have solicited any material 
delivered by the list that is consistent with the list's purpose. Violators shall suffer a 
penalty ranging from suspension for one week to one month. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 128 

 



14. Users who Violate Privacy 
1. Confidential Information 

1. Unless properly authorized, users may not attempt to gain access to 
archives or systems that contain, process, or transmit confidential 
information. Authorized users may not exceed their approved levels of 
access, nor should they disclose confidential information to others. 

2. Users shall treat as confidential such information which may become 
available to them through the use of the IT System, whether 
intentionally or accidentally. Users may not copy, modify, disseminate, 
or use such information, either in whole or in part, without the 
permission of the person or body entitled to give it. Violators shall suffer 
a penalty ranging from suspension for one year to expulsion or 
dismissal. 

2. Encrypted Information. Users shall consider as confidential all encrypted 
information. This shall include but is not limited to passwords, digital keys, and 
signatures. Users may not decrypt, attempt to decrypt or enable others to 
decrypt such information if they are not the intended recipient. Violators shall 
suffer a penalty ranging from suspension for one year to expulsion or dismissal 
of the term. 

3. Information belonging to others. Users may not intentionally seek or provide 
information on, obtain copies of, or modify files, programs, or passwords 
belonging to other users, without the permission of those other users, without 
the permission of those other users. Violators shall suffer a penalty ranging 
from suspension for one month to expulsion or dismissal. 

4. Wiretapping, traffic capture, and snooping. Unless properly authorized, users 
may not re-route or capture data transmitted over the IT System. Violators shall 
suffer a penalty ranging from express for one year to expulsion or dismissal. 

5. In addition to the penalties provided, all IT privileges of the offender may be 
suspended for a maximum of the period of the penalty. If the violation amounts 
to a penalty punishable by expulsion or dismissal, the user's IT privileges may 
be revoked permanently. 

6. Repeated violations of any of the actions proscribed under these policies shall 
be considered gross misconduct. 

15. Tolerated Use 

From time to time, the UP System and/or its constituent universities may issue a list classifying 
certain types of use under the category of tolerated use. This list shall form part of the Policy 
and will be considered binding on all users. Users should consult their system and network 
administrators if they are not sure whether a certain type of use is considered acceptable, 
tolerated, unacceptable, or prohibited. 

1. Enforcement Procedures 
1. Monitoring. The UP System or its constituent universities may monitor all use 

of the IT System at all times as may be necessary for its proper management. 
Activities on the IT System may be automatically and/or continuously logged. 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 129 

 



System and network administrators may examine these logs anytime. All logs 
shall be considered confidential. 

2. Access to Private Files. The UP System may access all aspects of the IT 
System, including private files, without the consent of the user, in the following 
instances: 

1. When necessary to identify or diagnose systems or security 
vulnerabilities and problems, or otherwise preserve the integrity, 
reliability, availability, confidentiality, and efficiency of the IT System; 

2. When such access to the IT System is required to carry out essential 
business functions of the UP SYSTEM; 

3. When necessary to avoid disrepute to the UP SYSTEM; 
4. When there are reasonable grounds to believe that a violation of law or 

a significant breach of this Policy or any other policy of the UP SYSTEM 
may have taken place and that access and inspection may produce 
evidence related to the misconduct; 

5. When required by law or administrative rules or court order; or 
6. When required to preserve public health and safety, the UP SYSTEM 

will access private files without the consent of the user only with the 
approval of the Chancellor, except when an emergency entry is 
necessary to preserve the integrity, reliability, availability, 
confidentiality, and efficiency of the IT System or to preserve public 
health and safety. The UP SYSTEM, through the system and network 
administrators, will document all instances of access without consent. 

3. Reporting Problems and Misuse. Users must report to the appropriate system 
administrator any defects discovered in system accounting or system security, 
all known or suspected abuse or misuse of the IT System, and especially any 
damage to or problems with their facilities or files. 

4. User Cooperation. Users, when requested, are expected to cooperate with UP 
System in any investigation of IT System Abuse. 

5. Guidelines for Immediate Action 
1. Notification. When any system administrator or member of the faculty 

or staff has persuasive evidence of abuse or misuse of the IT System, 
and if that evidence points to the activities or the files of an individual, 
they shall, within 24 hours of the discovery of the possible misuse, notify 
the Chancellor or their designated authority. 

2. Suspension. In such a case, the system administrator may temporarily 
suspend or restrict the user's access privileges for a period not 
exceeding seventy-two (72) hours. A user may appeal such suspension 
or restriction and petition for the immediate reinstatement of privileges 
through the Chancellor or their designated authority. The Chancellor 
may extend the suspension for thirty (30) days. 

3. Removal. In such a case wherein, the system administrator may 
immediately remove or uninstall from the IT System any material, 
software, or hardware that poses an immediate threat to the integrity, 
reliability, availability, confidentiality, and efficiency of the IT System or 
any of its components or if the use might be contrary to any of the 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 130 

 



established policies. The user shall be notified of the action taken. A 
user may appeal such removal and petition for reinstatement of the 
material within fifteen (15) days from removal. 

6. Investigation. The investigation and prosecution of students shall be in 
accordance with the regulation of the UP System. The investigation committee, 
body, or tribunal must have at least one member knowledgeable about 
Information Technology. The actions the proper officer may undertake include 
but are not limited to the following: 

1. Extend the suspension or restriction period of a user's privileges for the 
duration of the investigation or as may be deemed necessary to 
preserve evidence and protect the system and its users; 

2. Call and interview potential witnesses; and 
3. Summon the subject of the complaint to provide information. 

7. Filing of Criminal Charges. In such a case where there is evidence of serious 
misconduct or possible criminal activity, the Chancellor shall file the appropriate 
criminal charges with the proper courts. Where proceedings have been 
instituted against a user for violation of this Policy, the Chancellor may 
indefinitely suspend or restrict the user's access privileges for the duration of 
such proceedings. 

8. Cumulative Remedies. The procedures under this Policy shall not exclude any 
other remedy available to any injured or interested party under any relevant 
law, administrative rule, or other Policy established by the UP System. 

9. External Legal Processes. The UP System shall comply with any lawful order 
to provide electronic or other records or other information related to those 
records or relating to the use of the IT System, which may result from coercive 
processes in administrative investigations, or judicial actions or proceedings. 

2. Waiver 
1. Loss of Data. Users shall recognize that systems and networks are imperfect 

and waive any claim for lost work or time that may arise from the use of the IT 
System. The UP System shall not be liable for degradation or loss of personal 
data, software, or hardware as a result of their use of the IT System. 

2. Authorization. Users shall recognize that the UP System provides access to the 
IT System only as a privilege and not as a right; that they have no right to use 
it for any purpose other than those directly connected with the work of the UP 
System. The UP System may take whatever measure it deems necessary to 
enforce the aforementioned. Users shall therefore waive any action they may 
have against the UP System under any law or administrative rule or regulation 
for any act the UP System undertakes under these established policies, 
specifically including, but not limited to, those acts enumerated on the different 
tolerated use of the system. 

 
 

3. Services 

Listed below are the different services offered by the Information Technology Center. 
Students, who are in need of these services or have any concerns, questions, or 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 131 

 



manifestations related to these services, shall forward these to the university's Information 
Technology Center. 

1. UP Mail Accounts for Students and Contractual Employees 

The Information Technology Center shall be responsible for the Creation or Recovery of any 
UP Mail account for all enrolled students. 

Listed below are the different requirements for the creation of UP Mail account: 

1. Valid University of the Philippines Cebu Identification Card; or 
2. Form5 and any Government Issued Identification Card with photo. 
3. Signed Authorization Letter 

Students shall email the office through the email address of helpdesk@up.edu.ph all the 
required documents. Moving forward, the student shall receive more information and details 
via email after processing the request. 

1. UP Cebu Wi-Fi Accounts for Students 

The Information Technology Center shall be responsible for the Creation, Update, or Recovery 
of all UP Cebu Wi-Fi Accounts. All constituents of the university who are enrolled and classified 
as "Students" shall be able to avail of a UP Cebu Wi-Fi Account. 

Listed below are the different requirements for the creation of the accounts: 

1. Valid University of the Philippines Cebu Identification Card; or 
2. Form 5 and any Government Issued Identification Card with a photo 
3. Signed Authorization Letter 

Students shall present the requirements for review by any representative of the office. After 
review, the student shall receive account details through a printed copy that will be provided 
by the office. Furthermore, if there is a need for a change of password and/or account 
recovery, an electronic form shall be completed by the student for verification and review.  

1. UP Cebu Network Help Desk 

The Information Technology Center shall provide technical support for hardware, network, 
UIS, and software concerns of the students and faculty. 

Listed below are the different requirements for the creation of the accounts: 

1. Valid University of the Philippines Cebu Identification Card; or 
2. Any Government Issued Identification Card with a photo 
3. Signed Authorization Letter 

Students shall send an email request for the office to verify the client's ID and affiliation. Upon 
sending the email request, students are required to provide details for context and to make 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 132 

 



the device ready for check-up, troubleshooting, or configuration. After the device is troubleshot 
and configured, the device is returned to the student with feedback. 

Information Technology Center (ITC) 
JONATHAN P. VICTOLERO 
Head, Information Technology Center  
Email: itc.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
Contact No.: (032) 2328187 loc 202 
 

 

 
OFFICE DIRECTORY 
 

Information Technology Center (ITC) 
JONATHAN P. VICTOLERO 
Head, Information Technology Center  
Email: itc.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
Contact No.: (032) 2328187 local 202 
 

Gender and Development (GAD) Office  
ANNABELLE G. MAGLASANG, Ph.D., RGC 
Coordinator, Gender and Development 
Email: gad.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
Contact No.: (032) 2328187 local 211 
 

Legal Office 
ATTY. KING ANTHONY Y. PEREZ 
Head, Legal Office 
Email: legal.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
Contact No.: (032) 2328187 loc 125 
 
Office of Student Affairs (OSA) 
ASST. PROF. MA. ALENA N. MACASIL, MS 
Director of the Office of Student Affairs 
Email: osa.upcebu@up.edu.ph  
Contact No.: (032) 2328187 local 115 
 

Community Affairs Officer / Public Information Office (PIO) 
ATTY. IAN VINCENT C. MANTICAJON 
Coordinator, Public Information Office 
Email: pio.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
Contact No.: (032) 2328187 local 313 

 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 133 

 



Office of Anti-Sexual Harassment (OASH) 
ATTY. ARCHILL NIÑA F. CAPISTRANO, MInternatRel 
Coordinator, Office of Anti-Sexual Harassment 
Email: oash.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
Contact No.: (032) 2328187 local 203 

 

University Library 
MYLAH R. PEDRANO, R.L., MSLS 
University Librarian 
Email: library.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
Contact No.: (032) 2328187 local 316 
 

Health Services Unit (HSU) 
DR. LOREL S. DEE 
Chief, Health Services Unit 
Email: hsu.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
Contact No.: (032) 2328187 local 317 
 

Safety and Security Unit (SSU) 
JOSEPH PATRICK T. GUIEB 
Head of Safety and Security Unit 
Email: ssu.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
Contact No.: (032) 2328187 local 312 
  
Technology Transfer and Business Dev. Office (TTBDO) 
JASON A. NIEVA 
Head, Technology Transfer and Business Development Office 
Email: ttbdo.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
Contact No.: (032) 2328187 local 208 
  
Teaching and Learning Resource Center (TLRC) 
DR. NATIVIDAD VIRGINIA D. ESTILLORE 
Coordinator, TLRC 
Email: lrc.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
Contact No.: (032) 2328187 local 314 
 
 
Office of the University Registrar (OUR) 
ASST. PROF. MAY CHRISTINA G. BUGASH, M.Ed. 
University Registrar 
Email: our.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
Contact No.: (032) 2328187 local 120 

  
 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 134 

 



Office of the College Secretary (OCS)  
  

College of Social Sciences (CSS) 
ASST. PROF. PURITA T. BALTAZAR, M.Ed. 
College Secretary, College of Social Sciences 
Email: ocs_css.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
Contact No.: (032) 2328187 local 210 
AS 135, Arts and Sciences Building 
  
 
College of Science (COS) 
ASST. PROF. DHONG FHEL K. GOM-OS, M.Eng 
College Secretary, College of Science 
Email: ocs_cos.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
Contact No.: (032) 2328187 local 310 
Ground Floor, Undergraduate Building 
  
College of Communication, Art, and Design (CCAD) 
ASSO. PROF. JOCELYN C. PINZON, Ph.D. 
College Secretary, College of Communication, Art, and Design 
Email: ocs_ccad.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
Contact No.: (032) 2328187 local 315 
Second Floor, Undergraduate Building 
  
School of Management (SOM) 
ASSO. PROF. LEAHLIZBETH A. SIA, DODT 
College Secretary, School of Management 
Email: ocs_som.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
Contact No.: (032) 2328187 local 304 
SoM Faculty Room Building 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 135 

 



VII. UP NAMING MAHAL 
 
Every student is expected to learn and know how to sing the UP-Naming Mahal, which 
is sung at all university programs and exercises. 
 

 

UP NAMING MAHAL 

UP naming mahal 

Pamantasang hirang 

Ang tinig namin 

Sana’y inyong dinggin 

Malayong lupain 

Amin mang marating 

Di rin magbabago ang damdamin 

Di rin magbabago ang damdamin 

Luntian at pula 

Sagisag magpakailan man 

Ating ipagdiwang 

Bulwagan ng dangal 

Humayo’t itanghal 

Giting at tapang 

Mabuhay ang pag-asa ng bayan 

Mabuhay ang pag-asa ng bayan 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 136 

 



 
 

Officers of Administration 

 

UNIVERSITY OF THE PHILIPPINES SYSTEM 
 

 

Danilo L. Concepcion 

President 
 

Ma. Cynthia Rose B. Bautista 

Vice President for Academic Affairs 
  

Nestor G. Yunque 

Vice President for Administration 
 

Joselito G. Florendo 

Vice President for Planning and Finance 
 

Elvira A. Zamora 

Vice President for Development 
 

Elena E. Pernia 

Vice President for Public Affairs 
 

Hector Danny D. Uy 

Vice President for Legal Affairs 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 137 

 



 
Officers of Administration 

 

UNIVERSITY OF THE PHILIPPINES CEBU 
 

 

Leo B. Malagar 
Chancellor 

 

Patricia Anne G. Nazareno 

Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs 
 

Hazel A. Trapero 

Vice Chancellor for Administration 
 

May Christina G. Bugash 

University Registrar 
 

Mary Gretchen Chaves  
Dean, School of Management 

 

Nelia S. Ereno 

Dean, College of Science 
 

Francis Michael C. Abad 

Dean, College of Social Sciences 
 

Karl Roque 

OIC Dean, College of Communication, Art, and Design  
 

Ma. Alena N. Macasil 
Director, Office of Student Affairs 

 
 
 

 

 
 

  
UP Cebu Student Handbook 138 

 

Legend: 
●​ Q for Question 
●​ A for Answer 

 
​
Q: I AM A UP CEBU QUALIFIER, CAN I APPEAL FOR CHANGE OF DEGREE 
PROGRAM? 
A: Yes. Please fill out the Online Form for Confirmation or Appeal to UP Cebu by 
clicking on the link, and choose the appropriate option in the confirmation/appeal 
form. Please confirm on or before 2021 August 13. 
However, there is no guarantee that you will be accepted in the program you are 
appealing for. All appeals for reconsideration to UP Cebu will be subject to the 
availability of slots and your UPG (University Predicted Grade) score. 
If you cannot be accommodated into your chosen program, then you will be reverted 
back to your original program. 

Q: I AM WAITLISTED IN MY DEGREE PROGRAM OF CHOICE. WHAT DO I DO 
NOW? 
A: Please note that a waitlist status is not an assurance of admission. Your 
admission to this degree program will depend on the availability of slots after the 
confirmation period at the System-level, when waitlisted applicants will be selected to 
fill out vacated slots. Please confirm your admission offer at the System-level on or 
before 2021 July 30. 
After July 30, you will be informed if you have been admitted to your waitlisted 
program. If not, refer to Question #1 on how to appeal for admission to another 
degree program in UP Cebu. Please refer as well, to the other FAQs on this page. 
However, there is no guarantee that you will be accepted in the program you are 
appealing for. All appeals for reconsideration to UP Cebu will be subject to the 
availability of slots and your UPG (University Predicted Grade) score. 

Q: I AM AN UPCA QUALIFIER FROM ANOTHER UP CAMPUS/UNIT, CAN I 
TRANSFER TO UP CEBU INSTEAD? 
A: Qualifiers from other UP units intending to enroll in UP Cebu will have to fill out 
the Online Form for Confirmation or Appeal to UP Cebu by clicking on the link, 
and choose the appropriate option in the confirmation/appeal form. You will be asked 
to attach a screenshot of your UP Admissions Offer to a different UP Campus. 
However, there is no guarantee that you will be accepted in UP Cebu and in the 
program you are appealing for. All appeals for reconsideration to UP Cebu will be 
subject to the availability of slots and your UPG (University Predicted Grade) score.​
Additional guidelines here. 

Q: I AM A NON-QUALIFIER TO THE CAMPUSES I APPLIED FOR BUT MY UPG 
IS 2.8 OR BETTER* CAN I APPLY FOR RECONSIDERATION TO UP CEBU? 



A: The UP Cebu UPG (University Predicted Grade) Cut-off is 2.700. 
If your UPG is 2.700 or better, please fill out the Online Form for Confirmation or 
Appeal to UP Cebu by clicking on the link, and choose the appropriate option in the 
confirmation/appeal form. You will be asked to attach a screenshot of your 
Non-Qualifier’s Notice (which contains your UPG information).  
However, there is no guarantee that you will be accepted in UP Cebu and in the 
program you are appealing for. All appeals for reconsideration to UP Cebu will be 
subject to the availability of slots and your UPG (University Predicted Grade) score.​
Additional guidelines here. 
* in the UP Marking System, better means not more than 2.700, e.g. 2.710,  2.753, 
2.802, 3.000 

Q: I AM A UP CEBU QUALIFIER UNDER THE DPWAS**, HOW CAN I CONFIRM 
FOR A SPECIFIC PROGRAM? 
A: Please fill out the Online Form for Confirmation or Appeal to UP Cebu by 
clicking on the link, and choose the appropriate option in the confirmation/appeal 
form. (You will be asked to specify your choice in the next section.) Please confirm 
on or before 2021 August 13. 
However, there is no guarantee that you will be accepted in the program you have 
specified. Admission into a degree program will be subject to the availability of slots 
and your UPG score. 
** DPWAS – Degree Program with Available Slot 

Q: I AM A UP CEBU QUALIFIER BUT WOULD LIKE TO DEFER MY 
ENROLLMENT TO THE NEXT SEMESTER OR SCHOOL YEAR. MAY I? 
A: A qualified first year applicant who, for a valid reason, cannot enroll during the 
semester originally applied for, may apply for deferment of enrollment to the 
succeeding semester by filling out the Online Form for Confirmation or Appeal to 
UP Cebu by clicking on the link, and choose the appropriate option in the 
confirmation/appeal form. 
Such applicants must not take any college academic subject prior to enrollment. The 
maximum period allowed by the University for deferment of enrollment is one year. 

Q: CAN I ENROLL IN UP CEBU WITHOUT CONFIRMING MY SLOT, OR IF I 
FAILED TO ACCEPT THE UP ADMISSIONS OFFER? 
A: Failure to confirm your slot or reply to the UP Admissions Offer with the Office of 
Admissions from 2021 July 15 to July 30 will mean that your slot will automatically 
be forfeited. 
Replies to the UP Admissions Offer after 2021 July 30 will no longer be considered. 
Only those who confirmed acceptance can be assured of their slot in the campus 
and degree program they were offered admission to. 
You can no longer accept an offer after the deadline on 2021 July 30 because your 
slot will already be open to others who are also qualified.​



You will have to appeal for admission in UP Cebu via the link below if you declined 
an offer but then decided to accept it after the deadline. 
Additionally, failure to confirm your slot on or before 2021 August 13 in UP Cebu 
will mean a forfeited slot and a forfeited slot will be given to waitlisted* students.​
Confirm your slot here. 
* Waitlisted students are (i) UP Cebu qualifiers who appeal for a change in degree 
program; (ii) non-UP Cebu UPCA qualifiers who appeal for transfer to UP Cebu; (iii) 
UPCA non-qualifiers with UPG of 2.700 or better who appeal for admission to UP 
Cebu; and (iv) UP Cebu qualifiers under the DPWAS. 

Q: I HAVE BEEN CLASSIFIED UNDER PENDING CASES. 
A: Please contact the Office of Admissions to clear your deficiencies. More 
information here. 
Office of Admissions​
University of the Philippines​
Kalaw Corner Quirino Streets UP Diliman, Quezon City​
1101 Philippines​
Telefax: +63 (2) 927 4561​
Telephone: +63 (2) 981 8500 LOC 3826/3827/3828/3830/3831​
Email: oadms@up.edu.ph​
Website: https://upcollegeadmissions.up.edu.ph/ 

Q: IF I DON’T HAVE YET MY ORIGINAL HIGH SCHOOL REPORT CARD (FORM 
138) FOR THE ADVANCE REGISTRATION, CAN I STILL ENROLL? 
A: Yes, you can enroll. But note that your admission is provisional pending 
submission of the original High School Report Card or Form 138 bearing the 
signature of your principal and the remark: “Graduated and eligible for admission to 
college”. 

This applies to FORM 137 as well. 
 
Q: WHERE CAN I FIND THE ENROLLMENT GUIDE FOR UP CEBU? 
A: The enrollment guide, including course offerings and registration notes, is 
available on the Office of the University Registrar's website. 
 

Q: WHERE CAN I CHECK FOR UPDATES REGARDING APPEALS? 

A: Regularly check your emails for announcements on appeals. Also check the 
UPCAT – U.P. System Facebook Page for latest announcements: 
https://www.facebook.com/UPSystemOfficeOfAdmissions 

Q: Where is UP Cebu located?​
A: UP Cebu has two campuses: the Lahug campus on Gorordo Avenue, Lahug, 



Cebu City, and the South Road Properties (SRP) campus, which houses the UP 
Professional Schools.​
 
What is the student population at UP Cebu?​
A: As of 2024, UP Cebu has approximately 1,954 students, including 1,695 
undergraduates and 259 postgraduates.​
 
Q: What is UP Cebu's motto?​
A: UP Cebu's motto is "Honor, Excellence, Service."​
 
Q: What are the official colors of UP Cebu?​
A: The official colors are UP Maroon and UP Forest Green.​
 
Q: What affiliations does UP Cebu have?​
A: UP Cebu is affiliated with organizations such as APRU, ASAIHL, ASEA UNINET, 
AUN, and UAAP.​
 
Q: What is the nickname of UP Cebu's athletic teams?​
A: The athletic teams are nicknamed the "Fighting Maroons."



STUDENT 

HANDBOOK 
 
 
 
 

University of the Philippines Cebu 
 
 

NURTURED TO CREATE.  
INSPIRED TO INNOVATE.  

DESTINED TO SERVE. 
 

 
 
 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  1 
 



MESSAGE 
 
 

We are pleased to have you, Iskolar ng Bayan, as a part of the 
University of the Philippines. At UP Cebu, we want every student to 
excel and succeed at the earliest possible time. Rest assured we do 
not want you to stay here in the University any minute longer than 
needed.  So we are committed to work with you to ensure that you 
can learn and grow in a safe and supportive environment. 
 
As Iskolar  ng Bayan, you will undergo many changes during your 
stay in UP Cebu. You will meet new friends, new teachers, learn new 
things, and acquire a variety of opportunities. We want to encourage 
you to take advantage of everything UP Cebu has to offer and to 
accept the challenges head on. 
 
This handbook has been written to provide information to you and 
your families about UP Cebu policies and procedures. The following 
pages will contain important information that will allow you to better 
understand how UP Cebu operates and for you to be able to 
successfully navigate yourself inside the University, not just 
physically, but also emotionally and intellectually. 
 
Any inquiries that will arise that the Student Handbook may not 
answer, please don’t hesitate to approach our Office 
of Student Affairs, your advisers, or other faculty members as they are 
more than capable to answer your queries, and of course, including 
me. I can always be easily contacted by you through varied means of 
social media. 
 Again, congratulations for making it to the University of the 
Philippines and best wishes for a successful university life in UP 
Cebu! 

 
 
 

 
 

  Atty. Liza D. Corro 
Chancellor 

 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  2 
 



 
 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 
  Page 
UP Cebu Mission and Vision 5 
I. Classification of Students 5 
II. Academic Requirements 5 

1. Classification of Students 5 
2. Academic Load 6 
3. Credit Unit 6 
4. Transferees 6 
5. P.E. Requirements 7 
6. National Service Training Program (NSTP) 7 
7. Registration 8 
8. Cross Registration 8 
9. Student Identification Card 9 
10. Waiver of Pre-requisits 9 
11. Curricular Changes 9 
12. Attendance 10 
13. Leave of Absence 10 
14. Grading System 10 
15. Removal of Grades of INC or 4.0 11 
16. Scholastic Delinquency 12 
17. Honorific Scholarship 12 
18. Maximum Residency Rule 12 
19. Graduation Requirements 13 
20. Graduation with Honors 13 

III. General Rules and Regulations for Master's Degree Programs 14 
Section 1. Academic Calendar 14 
Section 2. Admission Requirements 14 
Section 3. Registration and Academic Load 15 
Section 4. Advance or Transfer Credits 15 
Section 5.Grading System and Requirement 16 
Section 6. General Requirements (Non-Thesis Option) 16 
Section 7.Comprehensive Examination 17 
Section 8. General Requirements (Thesis Option) 17 
Section 9. Section 9. Thesis 18 
Section 10.  Residence Rules 18 
Section 11. Graduation Requirements 20 
Section 12 Second Master’s Degree 21 

IV. Rights and Obligations 22 
1. Rights of Students 22 
2. Student Conduct and Discipline 23 

V. Office of Anti-Sexual Harrasment 30 
VI. UP Gender Development Program 31 
VII. Student Affairs and Services 32 

1. Guidance and Counseling 32 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  3 
 



2. Psychological Testing 32 
3. Career Guidance, Job Placement and Follow-up 32 
4. Scholarships and Financial Assistance 32 

a.   RA 10931- Universal Access to Tertiary Education Act of 2017 32 
b. Socialized Tuition System (STS) 33 
c. SFA Online  33 
d. Student Assistantship Program 34 
e. Student Loan Program 34 
f. Meal Assistance Program 34 
g. Donor-funded Scholarship Programs 34 
h. The Kadaganan Fund 35 

VIII. Rules and Regulations governing student organization, fraternities, and sororities 35 
IX. General Guidelines   

1. Use of OSA LCD/Equipment 43 
2.Use of UP Cebu Tambayans 44 
3. Posting at Bulletin Boards 45 
4.University Student Council Elections 46 
5.Selection of Tug-Ani Editor in Chief 40 
6.Use of UP Cebu Facilities 48 
7. Local Off-campus activities 50 

X. Teaching and Learning Resource Center 54 
XI. UP Naming Mahal  55 
UP Naming Mahal Lyrics 56 
University of the Philippines System Officials 57 
University of the Philippines Cebu Officials 58 
Appendix Form 1 Local Off-Campus Activities Report Of Compliance 
 59 
Appendix Form 2 Parent’s Consent In Off Campus Activities 
 60 
Appendix Form 3 Student Waiver Form 61 
A ppendix Form 4 Local Off Campus Activities   Certificate Of Compliance 62 
Appendix Form 5 Kadaganan Fund Borrower’s Application Form 
 63 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  4 
 



 
 

HAVING A BLAST IN UP CEBU 
 
Getting admitted to the University of the Philippines is by itself already a big 
achievement. It means besting thousands of other aspirants from all over the country 
and forming the top 25% of the Philippine high school graduate population who are able 
to qualify for a UP education. The process of education however is quite another thing. 
It calls for grit and stamina not only of the physical kind, but of the intellectual and 
psychological as well, to weather and survive the special educational culture of the 
University. This culture revolves around a set of academic rules and regulations, which 
every well-meaning student needs to be concerned about. 
 

UP CEBU VISION AND MISSION 
 
Vision 
 
A lead university in pioneering research, creative design, ICT-driven innovation, 
responsible governance and community service in Central Visayas and the global 
Society. 
 
Mission 
 
 UP Cebu promotes scientific, socio-economic, cultural and environmental progress in 
Central Visayas, in the nation and the world through creative and innovative instruction, 
research, intellectual productivity, and public service. UP Cebu: 
 
● offers accessible quality graduate, undergraduate, and continuing education that will 
produce innovative, critical, nationalist, ethical, gender-sensitive and socially responsible 
graduates who demonstrates a high level of academic pursuit; 
● conducts pioneering research, and develops novel and creative technologies through 
transdisciplinary collaboration; 
● applies products of knowledge generation, dissemination, and intellectual 
productivity, to improve social welfare; and 
● ensures administrative efficiency in the delivery of excellent, responsible service in 
support of learning, research, intellectual productivity, and public service. 

 
 

I. CLASSIFICATION OF STUDENTS 
 
UNDERGRADUATE and GRADUATE students are designated as regular and non-
regular. 
 
Regular Undergraduate students follow programs of study and comply with requirements 
which lead to the bachelor’s degree. They carry the full semestral load called for by their 
respective curricula and registration and classification purposes are divided generally 
into freshies, sophomores, juniors and seniors. 
 
Regular Graduate students are prospective candidates for the master’s degrees. They 
may either be part-time or full-time students. 
 
Non-regular students are: (1) non-degree students, with credits; (2) cross-registrants, 
with credits; (3) special students, no credit. 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  5 
 



 
II.  ACADEMIC POLICIES AND REQUIREMENTS FOR UNDERGRADUATE 

STUDENTS 
 
 
        2. Academic load 
 
An undergraduate student is not allowed to take more than 18 non- laboratory units or 
21 units including laboratory work. However, a graduating student with an academic 
record better than average may be permitted to carry a heavier load in the last semester 
of his/her course. 
 
       3. Credit Unit 
 
The unit of credit is the semester hour. Classes meet three hours a week; these classes 
carry 48 clock hours of instruction and three units of credit. Each unit of credit is at least 
16 semester-hours of instruction, in the form of lecture, discussion, seminar, tutorial, 
recitation, film viewing, fieldtrip or other forms of instruction as approved. 
 
       4. Transferees  
 

a. From other Universities and Colleges 
 
Students applying for transfer should submit at least one month prior to registration, an 
official transcript from each college attended and a certificate of honorable dismissal 
together with the application form (UP Form-3). There is no entrance test administered 
to transfer applicants. 
 
Requirements for admission: 
 

● A weighted average grade of 2.0, 80%, or B, or better for all the 
collegiate academic units earned outside of UP; 

● At least 33 units of academic courses (excluding P.E. and NSTP in a 
non-UP college; 

● He/she will have to complete in the University not less than 50% of the 
units required for his course; 

● The quota set by the Dean for the College has not been filled up. 
● A transfer student must pay a non-refundable fee of ₱100.00. 

 
b. Advanced Credits (Validation) 

 
An admitted undergraduate transfer student must validate all courses he/she is applying 
for advanced credits at the rate of at least 18 units a semester from the date of admission. 
His/her admission will be on probation basis until he/she shall have validated or repeated 
all subjects taken outside UP and which are required for his/her course. The student will 
not be allowed to enroll in a subject the pre-requisites of which, taken elsewhere, have 
not yet been validated or repeated, as the case may be. 
 
Application for advanced credits should be made on the prescribed form to the Dean. 
Validating tests begin two weeks prior to the first day of registration of the opening of 
each semester and one week after the last day of registration. There is no fee for 
validating tests taken during the period. A validating test may be held outside of this 
period with the consent of the division/department and the approval of the Dean and 
upon payment of a fee of ₱20.00 per subject. 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  6 
 



 
c. From a Regional Unit to Diliman and Vice-Versa 

 
A student who wishes to transfer from a regional unit to Diliman, or from Diliman to a 
regional unit, should file an application for transfer at the accepting college together with 
the true copy of grades. If the action of the accepting college is favorable, the student 
gets a college clearance which he/she presents to the accepting college together with 
the permit transfer, a true copy grades, and a certification that he/she is not under 
contract with UP Cebu. 
 
5. P.E. Requirements 
 
Basic Physical Education is a pre-requisite for graduation. All students should comply 
with this requirement during their first and sophomore years. No student will qualify for 
honorific scholar’s status unless he/she complies with this requirement. Eight (8) units 
of P.E. are required for all undergraduates. 
 
 Required Courses: 
P.E. 1 Foundations of Physical fitness which is a required course for 
all students. 
P.E. 2 Elective Physical Education activities for beginners. 
P.E. 3 Elective Physical Education activities for advanced students. 
 
A student may take any combination for P.E. 2's and P.E. 3's to fill the eight (8) units. 
 
6. National Service Training Program (NSTP) 
   
NSTP is aimed at  enhancing civic  consciousness and defense preparedness in the 
youth by developing  the ethics of service   and patriotism while undergoing training  in 
any of its three (3) program components such as literacy training service (LTS), civic 
welfare training service (CWTS), and reserved officers training course (ROTC). Its 
various components are especially designed to enhance the youth’s active contribution 
to the general welfare. 
 
a. Coverage 
All incoming first year students, male and female, enrolled in any baccalaureate program 
of the University shall be required to complete one (1) NSTP component of their choice 
as a graduation requirement. 
 
b. Program Components 
 
A student can choose from the following components: Reserve Officers Training Corps 
(ROTC), Literacy Training Service (LTS), and Civic Welfare Training Service (CWTS). 
 
LTS refers to the component designed to teach literacy and numeracy skills to school 
children, out of school youth and other sectors of society in need of these services. 
 
CWTS refers to the component or activities contributory to general welfare and 
betterment of life or enhancement of community facilities, especially those devoted to 
improving health, education, environment, entrepreneurship, safety, recreation and 
morale of the citizenry and other social services. 
 
The college shall offer ROTC and at least one other component (CWTS for UP) every 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  7 
 



semester. If there are less than 300 ROTC 
enrollees, ROTC unit cannot be opened but students can cross enroll. 
 
c.  Duration and Equivalent Course Unit 
 
The chosen NSTP component shall be undertaken for a period of two (2) semesters, 
with fifty-six (56) training hours and student load credit of 3 units per semester. No 
student will qualify for honorific scholar's status unless he/she complies with this 
requirement. 
 
 
7.  Registration 
 
A student must be officially registered in order to receive credit for course work. The 
official registration form (UP Form-5 or Form 5-B), which is a record of classes for which 
the student has enrolled, is filed in the Office of the College Secretary and Registrar. 
 
Special students (without credits) may register at any time without the payment of fine 
for late registration, subject to other regulations of the University. 
 
 Refunds 
 
Students who have paid their matriculation and who withdraw their registration or are 
granted honorable dismissal or leave of absence shall be entitled for a refund of their 
matriculation fees, except entrance and registration fees, in accordance with the 
approved schedule: 

 80%  - within one week from the opening of classes 
              50%  - within the second to the fourth week from the 
                                            opening of classes 
No refund - after the fourth week 

 
In the case of a student who registers after the opening of classes and withdraws 
thereafter, the number of days shall be counted from the actual date of registration, and 
the refund of his/her matriculation fees shall be in accordance with the above schedule. 
 
Laboratory fees will not be refunded after one week from the opening of classes, where 
voluntary change is made from one course to another. Refund of tuition fee for a subject 
may be allowed only in the case of forced dropping of the subject. 
 
8. Cross Registration 
 
 a. Within the University 
 
A student who wants to cross-register in Diliman or another regional unit must fill up the 
application for cross-registration form available at the OCSR. If the request is approved, 
he/she accomplishes the cross- registration form (UP Form 5-B). The student must pay 
the registration fee at the UP Cebu Cashier’s Office before bringing his/her UP Form 5-
B to the UP unit he/she is cross-registering. The total number of credits for which a 
student may cross-register in a college should not exceed the maximum allowed by the 
rules on academic load. No additional fee is charged if the total number of units does not 
exceed 21 units. 
 
b. From Another Institution 
 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  8 
 



A student registered in another institution and who wishes to cross register in UP must 
present a permit from his/her Dean or Registrar. The permit should state, in writing, the 
total number of units for which the student is registered and the subjects that he/she is 
authorized to take in the University. 
 
The University gives no credit for any course taken by any of its students in any other 
institution unless the taking of such course was authorized by the President. This written 
authorization is to be recorded by the University Registrar  
and should specify the subjects authorized. 
 
9. Student’s Identification Card 
 
The Student’s Identification Card is the student’s permit to many facilities of the school 
like the library, etc. It is also a requirement for securing one’s copy of grades and 
enrollment. It is non-transferable and may not be used by anyone except the owner. 
Loss of this card needs an Affidavit of Loss notarized by a lawyer and must be reported 
at once to the OCSR. Request for replacement must likewise be made. 
 
10.  Waiver of Pre-requisites 
 
Courses approved by the University Council as pre-requisites to others may not be 
waived. However, in meritorious cases, a student who has previously enrolled and fully 
attended a course that is a pre-requisite to another may be allowed to enroll and attend 
the latter course for credit, without having passed or earned credit for the pre-requisite 
course. This will be acted upon through a Dean’s committee that shall decide the merit 
of the application. 
 
11. Curricular Changes 
 
a. Substitution of Courses 
 
Every substitution of subjects must be based on at least one of the following: 
 
When a student pursuing a curriculum that has been superseded by a new one and the 
substitution tends to bring the old curriculum in line with the new; 
Where there is a conflict of hours between a required subject and another required 
subject; 
When the required subject is not given during the semester the student needs it. 
Every petition for substitution: 
1. Must involve subjects within the same department, if possible; if not, the 
two subjects concerned must be allied to each other; 
2. Must be between subjects in which the subject substituted carries number of 
units equal to or greater than the units that required subject; 
3. Must be recommended by the adviser and by the division chair concerned. 
All petitions for substitution must be submitted to the Office of the College Secretary 
before 12% of the regular class meetings have been held. 
 
No substitution shall be allowed for any subject prescribed in the curriculum in which the 
student has failed or received a grade of 5.0 except when, in the opinion of the program 
adviser, the proposed substitute covers substantially the same subject matter as the 
required subject. 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  9 
 



 
 b. Changing of Classes 
 
All transfers to other classes shall be made for valid reasons. No change of matriculation 
involving the taking of a new subject shall be allowed after one week of regular class 
meetings have been held. 
 
Changes in matriculation shall be effected by means of the form for the Change of 
Matriculation and must be recommended by the adviser and approved by the Dean. The 
form, after being duly accomplished, shall be submitted to the Registrar through the 
Office of the College Secretary for assessment and notation. 
 
c. Dropping of Classes 
 
A student may, with the consent of his/her instructor and the Dean, drop a subject by 
filling out the prescribed-UP Form 26-A before 3/4 of the prescribed hours of the 
semester has elapsed, and not later. If a subject is dropped after the middle of the term, 
the faculty member concerned shall indicate the date and the class standing of the 
student at the time of the dropping as either Passing or Failing solely for administrative 
guidance. 
 
Dropping fee is ₱10.00 per unit. 
 

 
12. Attendance 
 
When number of hours lost by absence reaches 20% of the hours of scheduled work in 
one subject, the student shall be dropped from the subject, provided that a faculty 
member may prescribe a longer attendance requirement to meet their special needs. If 
the majority of the absences are excused, the student shall not be given a grade of 5.0 
upon being dropped; otherwise, he/she shall be given a grade of 5.0. 
 
Time lost by late enrollment shall be considered time lost by absence. Excuses are for 
time missed only. All work covered by the class during the absence shall be made up to 
the satisfaction of the instructor within a reasonable period of time from the date of 
absence. 
 
13.  Leave of Absence (LOA) 
 
A student who withdraws from the college without the formal leave of absence shall have 
his/her registration privileges curtailed or entirely withdrawn. Prolonged leave of absence 
should be requested in a written petition to the Dean. The petition should state the reason 
for which the leave is desired and specifies the period for the leave, which must not 
 exceed one academic year. A college clearance must be accomplished by the student. 
 
Leave of Absence fee - ₱150.00 
Fine for Absence Without Official Leave - ₱225.00 
 
 
If a student withdraws after 3/4 of the total number of hours prescribed for the course 
has already elapsed, his/her instructor may give a grade of 5.0 if his/her class standing 
at the time of his/her withdrawal is below 3.0. 
 
14.  Grading System 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  10 
 



 
The work of the student shall be graded at the end of each term in accordance with the 
following system: 

1.0 Excellent 
1.25 Excellent 
1.50 Very Good 
1.75 Very Good 
2.0 Good 
2.25 Good 
2.50 Satisfactory 
2.75 Satisfactory 
3.0 Passed 
4.0 Conditional Failure 
5.0 Failed 
INC Incomplete 

 
Only these grades shall be officially recognized. 
 
A grade of 4.0 may be made up by repetition of the course or by passing a re-
examination to be taken within one academic year from the date of the grade of 4.0 
has been received. If a student passes the re- examination, he/she is given a grade of 
3.0, but if he/she fails he/she is given a grade of 5.0. Only one (1) re-examination is 
allowed which must be taken within the prescribed time. If a student does not remove 
the grade of 4.0 within the prescribed time, he may earn credit for the course only by 
repeating and passing it. 
 
A grade of 4.0 given for the first semester work of a two-semester course shall be 
converted to a grade of 3.0 if the student passes the second semester part of the same 
course in the same academic year. If he/she fails, the grade of 4.0 that he/she received 
for the first semester work shall be converted to a grade of 5.0. 
 
The grade INC is given if the student whose class standing throughout the semester is 
passing but fails to appear for the final examination or fails to complete other 
requirements of the course due to illness or other valid reasons. In case the class 
standing is not passing and the student fails to take the final examination for any reason, 
a grade of 5.0 is given. Removal of the INC must be done within the prescribed time by 
passing an examination or meeting all requirements of the course, after which the 
student shall be given a final grade based on over 
-all performance. 
 
15. Removal of Grades of Incomplete or 4.0 
 
Examinations for the removal of grades of INCOMPLETE or 4.0 may be taken without 
fee: 1) during the regular examination period, if the subject in which a student failed to 
take his/her final examination is included in the schedule of examination for the period 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  11 
 



during which said removal examination is to be taken; otherwise, said student is to be 
charged the fee of P20.00; 2) during the removal examination period,  viz. the period 
covering ten (10) days preceding the registration in each semester; provided, that the 
examination for the particular subject is taken at the time that is scheduled; 3) within the 
ten-day  period preceding the Christmas vacation in colleges in which there is no inter- 
semester vacation; provided the examination is taken at the time it is scheduled. 
 
The period for the removal of grades of INCOMPLETE should not exceed beyond one 
(1) academic year from the date the grade was received. 
 
 
16. Scholastic Delinquency 
 
a.  Warning 
Any student who gets a final grade below 3.0 in 25% to 49% of the total number of 
academic units at the end of the semester for which he/ 
she is registered will be placed on a warning status. He/she shall be de- loaded three (3) 
units out of the total regular load for the succeeding semester. 
 
    b.  Probation 
At the end of the semester, any student who obtains final grades below 3.0 in 50% to 
74% of the total number of academic units enrolled shall be placed on probation in the 
succeeding semester with a de- loading of six (6) academic units. 
 
Probation may be removed by passing with grades of 3.0 or better in more than 50% of 
the units in which he has final grades in the succeeding semester. 
 
   c. Dismissal 
Any student who, at the end of the semester, obtains final grades of below 3.0 in more 
than 75% but less than 100% of the total number of academic units in which he/she 
received final grades shall be dropped from the rolls of the college. 
Any student on probation who again fails in 50% or more of the total number of units in 
which he/she received final grades shall be dropped from the rolls of the college. 
 
    d. Permanent Disqualification 
 
Any student who, at the end of the semester, obtains final grades of below 3.0 in 100% 
of the academic units in which he/she is given final grades shall be permanently barred 
from re-admission to any college or school of the University. 
 
Permanent disqualification does not apply to cases where, on recommendation of the 
instructors concerned, the faculty certifies that the grades of 5.0 were due to the 
student’s unauthorized dropping subjects and not to poor scholarship. However, if the 
unauthorized withdrawal takes place after the mid-semester and the student’s class 
standing is poor, his/her grades of 5.0 shall be counted against him/her for the purpose 
of the scholarship rule. 
 
 
17. Honorific Scholarship 
 
Honorific scholarship does not entitle the holders to any tuition fee waiver, either partial 
or full. 
 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  12 
 



a.  University Scholarship 
Any undergraduate student who obtains at the end of the semester a weighted average 
of 1.45 or better is given the honorific scholarship. University scholars are listed in the 
President’s list of scholars. 
 
    b.  College Scholarship 
Any undergraduate student, who not being classed as University scholar obtains at the 
end of the semester a weighted average of 1.75 or better is given this honorific 
scholarship. College scholars are also listed 
in the Dean’s list of scholars. 
 
In addition to the general weighted average (GWA) prescribed, a student must have 
taken during the previous semester at least 15 units of academic credits or the normal 
load prescribed (in the case of graduate students not less than 9 units); must be up to 
date with all the non- academic requirements (P.E. and NSTP) and must have no grade 
below 
I.1 in an academic or non-academic subject. 
 
18.  Maximum Residence Rule 
 
A student must finish the requirement of a course of any college within a period of actual 
residence equivalent to 1 1/2 times the normal length prescribed for the course (6 years), 
otherwise he/she shall not be allowed to register further in the college. 
 
 
19. Graduation Requirements 
 
No student shall be recommended for graduation unless he/she has satisfied all 
academic and other requirements prescribed for graduation. 
 
All candidates for graduation must have their deficiencies made up and their records 
cleared not later than five weeks before the end of their last semester except for those 
subjects that the student is currently enrolled during that semester. 
 
No student shall be graduated from the University unless he/she has completed at least 
one year of residence work that may, however, be extended to a longer period by the 
proper faculty. The residence work referred to must be done immediately prior to 
graduation. 
 
No student who fails to pay the required graduation fee within the specified period set by 
the College Secretary shall be conferred any title or degree. Such a student may, 
however, upon his/her request and payment of the necessary fees be given a certified 
copy of credentials without specifying his/her completion of the requirements toward any 
title or degree. 
 
Students must file formal applications as candidates for graduation in the Office of the 
College Secretary. A fine is imposed for late application for graduation. 
 
 
20. Graduation with Honors  
 
Students who completed their courses with the following grade point 
average shall be graduated with honors: 
 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  13 
 



Cum Laude 1.75 

Magna Cum 1.45 
Laude 

Summa Cum 1.20 
Laude 

 
Provided: 
 
All grades in all subjects prescribed in the curriculum as well as subjects that qualify as 
electives shall be included in the computation of the weighted average grades. 
Candidates for graduation with honors must have completed in the University at least 
75% of the total number of academic units or hours for graduation and must have been 
in residence therein for at least two years prior to graduation. 
In the computation of the final average of candidates for graduation with honors, only 
resident credits shall be included. 
Students who are candidates for graduation with honors must have taken during each 
semester not less than 15 units or the normal load prescribed in the curriculum. 

 
 

III. GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR MASTER’S DEGREE 
PROGRAMS (approved during the 6th UP Cebu University Council Meeting on 12 September 
2018)  

 
Section 1. Academic Calendar 
 

Article 1. Graduate programs in the University of the Philippines Cebu operate 
on either of two modes of the academic calendar. For any program, the 
academic year is made up either of two (2) semesters or three (3) trimesters. 
 

Section 2. Admission Requirements 
 

Article 2. An applicant for admission to a master’s degree program must be a 
holder of a bachelor’s degree or its equivalent from any recognized academic 
institution. 
 
Article 3. A duly accomplished application form addressed to the Dean of the 
college/school offering the degree program must be submitted together with 
the following documents: 

a) Original or certified true copy of the official transcript of academic 
records, in English language, with no remarks and with an explanation 
of the grading system used, from all tertiary and graduate institutions 
attended; 

b) For international students, certification from the Office of the University 
Registrar of previous university attended that the medium of instruction 
is English (if applicable), or results of Test of English as a Foreign 
Language (TOEFL) or results of the International English Language 
Testing System (IELTS), or its equivalent; 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  14 
 



c) Application fee; 
d) Two (2) sealed letters of recommendation from former professors 

and/or experts in the field of study that the student is seeking admission 
into; and 

e) Other requirements as may be prescribed by the college/school for 
specific degree programs. 

 
Article 4. An applicant seeking admission into a master’s degree program shall 
take and pass the entrance examination, except in programs that do not 
require an entrance examination. 
 
Article 5. The college/school concerned shall determine the acceptability of 
the applicant based on a set of criteria that may include the applicant’s 
academic background, entrance examination results (if applicable), language 
proficiency, and research and work experience in the intended field of study. 

The Dean of the college/school shall issue an official notice of 
admission to the applicant based on the recommendation of the designated 
Admissions Committee of the respective degree-granting units. 
 

Section 3. Registration and Academic Load 
 
Article 6. All students intending to work for a Master’s degree will be allowed 
to register only upon presentation of the letter of admission from the Dean of 
their respective college/school. 
 
Article 7. At the time of the student’s admission, a Program Adviser shall be 
provided by the department/program concerned to advise and monitor the 
student in the course work and other requirements of the degree program. 
 Only full-time members of the graduate faculty shall serve as program 
advisers. 
 
Article 8. A graduate student on full-time study should take 9-12 units a 
semester/trimester as prescribed in the study plan of his/her degree program. 
Unless specified in his/her particular program, a student who takes less than 9 
units in an academic term is considered a part-time student. 
 Under meritorious circumstances, the student may be allowed more 
than the prescribed academic load by the Dean. 
 

Section 4. Advance or Transfer Credits 
 
Article 9. Advance credits, which are subject to validation, may be earned from 
courses taken at institutions outside of the UP System. 
 Transfer credits may be directly earned from courses taken at other UP 
units. Courses taken that may be considered equivalent to those required in 
the program pursued are subject to substitution by the department/ program 
concerned. 
 Units for undergraduate courses cannot be credited for graduate work. 
 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  15 
 



Article 10. A graduate student may apply for a maximum of nine (9) units of 
advance or transfer credits for work done at another institution with the 
appropriate department/program within the first semester/trimester of the 
student’s admission into the program. 
 
Article 11. Advance or transfer credits should have been earned with grades 
of “2.0” (or its UP equivalent) or better within the last five (5) years prior to 
admission. 
 
Article 12. No credit shall be given for work that has been credited to a 
previously earned degree. 
 
Article 13. The validation examination(s) required shall be conducted within 
the first year of enrollment of the student. 
 

Section 5. Grading System and Requirement 
 

Article 14. The following numerical grades shall be used in graduate courses: 
1.0, 1.25 (Excellent), 1.5, 1.75 (Very Good), 2.0, 2.25 (Good), 2.5, 2.75 
(Satisfactory), 3.0 (Pass), 4.0 (Conditional), INC (Incomplete), and 5.0 (Fail). 
 
Article 15. A grade of “3.0” or better is a passing grade. A graduate student 
earns credit for a course when s/he obtains a grade of “3.0” or better. 
 
Article 16. The General Weighted Average (GWA) shall be based on all 
courses taken by the student in his/her approved Program of Study, including 
those taken in compliance with the Residence Rules, if applicable. 
 
Article 17. To remain in good standing, a student must maintain a GWA of 
“2.000” or better in his/her course work at the end of each academic year until 
the completion of the Program of Study. 
 
Article 18. A student who fails to satisfy the GWA of “2.000” at the end of the 
academic year shall be disqualified from the master’s program. 

 
Section 6. General Requirements (Non-Thesis Option) 
 

Article 19. To qualify for the master’s degree under the Non-Thesis Option, a 
student must satisfy the following requirements: 

a) complete a minimum of thirty (30) units of formal graduate courses; 
b) obtain a General Weighted Average (GWA) of “2.000” or better in all 

graduate courses taken in his/her Program of Study; and 
c) pass the master’s comprehensive examination, or complete a special 

problem, research project, capstone project, or its equivalent. 
 
Article 20. Additional requirements over and above these minimum University 
requirements and standards for the master’s degree may be adopted by the 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  16 
 



colleges/units for their respective master’s degree programs with the approval of 
the appropriate bodies. 
 

Section 7. Comprehensive Examination 
 

Article 21. A student may apply for the comprehensive examination after 
completing all the academic course requirements and obtaining a GWA of 
“2.000” or better in all his/her courses, including those courses taken to comply 
with the Maximum Residence Rules. 
 Instead of a comprehensive examination, a program may require the 
completion of a special problem, research project, capstone project, or its 
equivalent. 
 
Article 22. The Comprehensive Examination Committee shall consist of a 
minimum of three (3) regular full-time faculty members with doctoral degrees, 
except in meritorious cases, when those with other credentials may be made 
part of the Committee, such as Professorial Lecturers and Professors Emeriti 
may also serve as examiners provided they are at least master’s degree 
holders and/or known experts in their fields and have taught in the unit during 
the last two (2) years. The exception shall be made only with the approval of 
the Dean, upon the recommendation of the appropriate bodies. 
 
Article 23. The grades for the comprehensive examination are as follows: 
“Pass” or “Fail.” 
 
Article 24. If a student fails the comprehensive examination, a second 
examination shall be allowed within one (1) year after the first examination. 
Failure to pass this second examination shall bar the student permanently from 
the current master’s program.  
 
Article 25. If a student passes the comprehensive examination, s/he shall 
qualify for the master’s degree under the Non-Thesis Option. 
 

Section 8. General Requirements (Thesis Option) 
 

Article 26. To qualify for the master’s degree under the Thesis Option, a student 
must satisfy the following requirements: 

a) complete a minimum of twenty-four (24) units of formal graduate courses; 
b) obtain a General Weighted Average (GWA) of “2.000” or better in all 

graduate courses taken in his/her Program of Study; 
c) successfully defend a master’s thesis; and 
d) submit at least four (4) bound and certified copies of the approved 

master’s thesis. 
 
Article 27. The four (4) bound copies shall be distributed as follows: one (1) copy 
each for the student, the Thesis Adviser, the College, and the University Library. 
 

Section 9. Thesis 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  17 
 



 
Article 28. The master’s thesis must: 

a) embody an original and significant research or creative work in the primary 
discipline or field of the degree program pursued; 

b) show the student’s capacity to make a critical evaluation of previous work 
done in his/her chosen research topic; and 

c) demonstrate his/her ability to present research findings in a clear, 
systematic, and scholarly manner. 

 
Article 29. The thesis shall have an equivalent of six (6) units of graduate credit 
and shall have a numerical grade upon completion of all the thesis requirements. 
At the end of each semester/trimester, the student shall be marked “IP” (In 
Progress) until such time that s/he has completed all requirements. 
 
Article 30. The six units of thesis shall be registered in one term for six units (6) 
or two terms for three units each term (3-3). 
 
Article 31. A student who has already registered a total of six (6) units for thesis 
but still unable to finish the work should enroll for residency per term until s/he is 
able to submit the bound copies of the approved manuscript, but only up to a 
maximum of two years (4 semesters/6 trimesters). 
 If at the end of this time limit, the student is still unable to submit bound copies 
of the approved manuscript, s/he shall be given a grade of “U” (Unsatisfactory) 
and should re-enroll all the six units of thesis. The same policies as in Article 30 
shall apply. 
 
Article 32. After the student completes the prescribed academic requirements, 
with a GWA of “2.000” or better, s/he shall request the head of the unit for a thesis 
adviser. The Dean shall then appoint the adviser who shall be chosen on the basis 
of the student’s research topic, upon recommendation of appropriate bodies. The 
adviser shall come from the unit where the student is enrolled. 
 
Article 33. The adviser shall be responsible for: 

a) advising the student in the preparation of the thesis proposal; 
b) guiding and monitoring his/her thesis research; and 
c) endorsing his/her master’s thesis for oral defense. 

 
Article 34. A Thesis Committee, consisting of the Adviser, Co-Adviser, if any, and 
a Reader, shall be constituted upon completion of course work. 
 The Thesis Committee shall consist of full-time regular faculty members who 
are master’s degree holders except in highly meritorious cases as approved by 
the Dean upon the recommendation of the appropriate bodies. Professorial 
Lecturers, Professors Emeriti and experts from external institutions may also 
serve as Co-Adviser, Reader, and panelists upon approval by the Dean. 
 
Article 35. The functions of the Thesis Committee are to: 

a) approve the thesis proposal; and 
b) endorse the thesis draft for oral defense. 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  18 
 



 
Article 36. The functions of the Reader are to: 

a) evaluate the thesis for defense; and 
b) endorse the thesis to the Oral Defense Panel. 

 
Article 37. If the Adviser/Reader goes on leave for more than one (1) 
semester/trimester, the Dean shall appoint a new Adviser/Reader upon the 
recommendation of the appropriate bodies. 
 A student who wishes to change an Adviser/Reader shall write the Dean, 
through channels. On the other hand, an Adviser may request to be relieved of 
his/her duties for justifiable reasons. 
 
Article 38. The student shall submit a written thesis proposal to the Thesis 
Adviser, Co-Adviser (if any) and Reader. Upon approval of the thesis proposal, 
the student may then carry out the thesis research. A certified copy of the 
approved proposal and a form endorsing the thesis proposal, duly signed by the 
Thesis Committee, shall be submitted to the Dean, through channels. 
 
Article 39. After the student’s completed draft has been evaluated favorably by 
the Thesis Committee members, they shall endorse it for oral defense to the Dean, 
through channels. 
 
Article 40. The oral defense examination panel shall consist of at least three (3) 
members and no more than five (5) members who shall be appointed by the Dean 
upon the recommendation of the appropriate bodies. A maximum of two (2) out of 
five (5) or one (1) out of three (3) members of the master’s oral defense panel may 
come from an external institution (i.e., outside the Department, College, or 
University) with whom the University has an existing MOA. 
 The panel shall be chaired by one (1) of the examiners other than the Adviser 
or Co-Adviser. 
 
Article 41. The master’s defense must be held in the College/Unit at a time 
recommended by the panel, endorsed by the appropriate heads, and authorized 
by the Dean. 
 The time and place of the master’s defense shall be officially announced at 
least two (2) weeks before the scheduled oral defense. The schedule of the 
defense may be changed only upon the recommendation of the defense panel, 
through channels, and the formal authorization of the Dean. 
 
Article 42. The defense may be held only if: 

a) the thesis manuscript has been received by each member of the panel at 
least one (1) month before the scheduled examination; 

b) all members of the examination panel are present, except for programs 
that require the inclusion of a foreign Co-Adviser or foreign external 
examiner. If the latter is absent, s/he shall be required to send her/his 
comments to the Chair of the Panel who shall integrate this in the final 
report. If any other member of the panel is absent, the oral defense shall 
be rescheduled. 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  19 
 



 
Article 43. The master’s defense shall be a public oral examination, the duration 
of which shall be left to the discretion of the panel. However, the evaluation and 
rating of the student’s defense shall be done by the panel in a closed-door meeting 
to be held immediately after the defense. 
 
Article 44. There shall be three (3) ratings for the defense: “Pass,” “Provisional 
Pass,” or “Fail.” “Fail” means substantial revisions are required by at least two (2) 
of the five (5) panel members or one (1) of the three (3) panel members. Any 
member who fails the student must specify the reason(s) in writing, a copy of 
which shall be attached to the report of the panel. 
 “Provisional Pass” means minor revisions are required. All members of the 
panel must agree on the recommended revisions, which must be specified in 
writing and attached to the final report. A second rating sheet shall be signed only 
after the student incorporates the revisions and the defense panel certifies that 
the revisions were made. 
 The result of the oral defense must be reported by the panel to the Dean, 
through channels, within the first working day after the examination. 
 
Article 45. If the student passes the defense, his/her master’s thesis shall be 
considered approved. 
 
Article 46. If the student fails the defense, s/he may submit herself/himself to a 
second master’s defense within one (1) academic year after the first defense. 
Failure to pass the second defense disqualifies the student from her/his current 
master’s program.  
 

Section 10. Residence Rules 
 
Article 47. The graduate student is in residence when s/he is officially enrolled. 
 
Article 48. The student must be officially enrolled in residence at least one (1) 
academic year prior to the conferment of his/her degree. 
 
Article 49. A graduate student may request in writing for a leave of absence (LOA) 
for at least a semester/trimester from the Dean of the college/school concerned. 
Approval of LOA is granted for not more than one (1) year at a time. 
 
Article 50. The student who leaves his/her work during an academic term without 
a formal LOA permit is considered absent without leave (AWOL) and loses his/her 
registration privileges. 
 A student who is considered AWOL for at least one semester/trimester must 
apply for readmission into his/her graduate program at the concerned 
college/school. 
 
Article 51. The maximum residence rule (MRR) states that: Students have five 
(5) academic years from their initial enrollment in the program to fulfill all 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  20 
 



requirements for a master’s degree. The five-year maximum time of program 
completion includes all leave periods. 
 
Article 52. The regular period for completion for a graduate student transferring 
from another university shall be reduced by one (1) semester. 
 If there are courses taken by the student prior to his/her admission to the 
program and credited to his/her course requirements, then his/her allowed period 
of completion will be reduced by a number of semesters equivalent to one (1) 
semester for every nine (9) units of courses credited to his/her program. 
 
Article 53. In exceptionally meritorious cases, an extension of residence (waiver 
of MRR) beyond the above regular period of completion may be approved by the 
Dean upon recommendation of the appropriate bodies. 
 Each extension shall be for a period not exceeding one (1) semester at a time. 
In no case shall the extensions exceed more than five (5) years. The student 
granted an extension shall take additional units of graduate courses in his/her 
discipline or area (with the approval of the student’s Program Adviser) during the 
extension period at a rate of three (3) units for every two (2) years of extension or 
a fraction thereof. 

 
Section 11. Graduation Requirements 
 

Article 54. A student shall be considered a candidate for graduation if s/he meets 
the following requirements: 

a) must have a GWA of “2.000” or better in all courses taken in her/his 
approved Program of Study, including those taken in compliance with the 
Residence Rules, if applicable; 

b) must have passed the oral defense of her/his thesis and submitted the 
required number of approved copies of the thesis; or must have passed the 
comprehensive examination; or must have successfully completed a 
special problem, research project, capstone project, or its equivalent; 

c) must satisfy all other requirements prescribed by the degree program; and 
d) must have been in residence one (1) year immediately prior to graduation. 

 
Article 55. The student must file the application for graduation and diploma with 
the college/school concerned according to the schedule in the academic calendar. 
 
Article 56. After the graduation of the student shall have been recommended by 
the College Faculty Assembly, endorsed by the University Council, and approved 
by the Board of Regents, s/he shall be officially conferred the master’s degree. 
 

Section 12. Second Master’s Degree 
 

Article 57. A student who has earned a master's degree in UP Cebu or any UP 
unit and wishes to earn another master's degree therein, must satisfy the following 
requirements: 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  21 
 



a) earn in the University at least eighteen (18) more graduate course credits 
in the second master’s degree in addition to the common course 
requirements of his/her first master's degree; and 

b) complete all other requirements of the second master's degree. 
 
Article 58. In case of thesis programs, the additional units required for the second 
master’s degree are exclusive of the thesis. In the case of non-thesis programs, 
the additional units are exclusive of the comprehensive examination. 
 The additional course work in the program of study shall be in advanced 
courses that strengthen the area of specialization in the University. 

 
  

IV. STUDENT RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS 
 
The notion that a student’s place in an institution of higher learning is but to study has 
long been rejected in the University of the Philippines. It has been replaced with an 
entirely different tradition the by-word of which is militancy. The tradition revolves around 
the idea that thought should transcend the classroom and transform itself into action. 
 
Because of its affinity with the high purpose of national welfare, student militancy is 
appraised as a cherished value not only in the academe but in the entire Filipino society. 
As such, it is to be defended and preserved. 
 
The pursuit of this tradition of militancy is moored in certain basic rights guaranteed to 
students. 
 
1. Rights of Students 
 
Among the basic rights appertaining to students as members of the academic 
community are: 
 

a. Freedom of inquiry and expression, within the campus, in curricular 
activities and in extra-curricular affairs; 
b. Procedural fairness in disciplinary proceedings; and 
c. Participation in the governance of the institution. 

The student’s right of freedom of inquiry includes the right not only to accurate 
information, but also to hear any opinion on any subject of public or general concern. 
 
For this purpose, they may have the right to invite outside speakers, and school 
authorities may not veto their invitation solely on the basis of the credentials of the 
speakers. 
 
It also includes the right not to be subjected to indoctrination leading to imposed 
ideological homogeneity. 
 
The student’s freedom of expression includes the right: 
 

a) To hold any kind of peaceful demonstration. 
b) To protest against school policies and national or local policies even though 

not related to the school. 
c) To circulate literature and petitions for signature. 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  22 
 



d) The student’s rights to fair play in disciplinary proceedings include the 
following rights: 

e) Not to be punished for acts that were not grounds for disciplinary 
f) action when they were committed. 
g) To a written notice of the charges and reasonable time to answer them and 

prepare for their hearing. 
h) To a hearing before suspension or expulsion, unless summary suspension is 

clearly authorized in limited cases. 
i) To an impartial judge. 
j) To be assisted by a counsel. 
k) To confront and question adverse witnesses. 
l) To present defense. 
m) To be informed of the decision. 
n) To appeal the decision to higher school authorities, where allowed and 

thereafter to the courts. 
 

2. Student Conduct and Discipline 
 

The UP Cebu expects from its students at all times a high degree of self-discipline and 
good moral conduct together with a seriousness of purpose in the pursuit of knowledge. 
 
The Rules and Regulations on Student Conduct and Discipline herein listed, are as 
approved by the Board of Regents at its 876th meeting on September 1976 superseding 
all previous rules on the subject, and amended at these BOR meetings: 908th, 
December 7, 1978; 923rd, January 31, 1980; 1017th, December 8, 1988; 1041st, July 
4, 1991; 1051st, June 25, 1992; and 1123rd, August 27, 1998. 
 
For the guidance of all concerned, the following rules and regulations on the conduct 
and discipline of students are hereby promulgated: 
 
SECTION 1. Basis of Discipline - Students shall at all times observe the 
laws of the land and the rules and regulations of the University. 
 
No disciplinary proceedings shall be instituted except for conduct prohibited by law or by 

the rules and regulations promulgated by duly constituted authority of the University. 
 
 SECTION 2. Specific Misconduct - A student shall be subject to disciplinary action 

for any of the following acts: 
a. Any form of cheating in examinations or any act of dishonesty in relation to 

his studies; 
b. Carrying within University premises any firearm, knife with a blade longer 

than 2 ½ inches, or any other dangerous or deadly weapon; Provided, That 
this shall not apply to one who shall possess  the same in connection with 
his studies and who has a permit from the dean or director of his college or 
school; 

c. Drinking of alcoholic beverages within academic and administrative 
buildings, dormitories, and the immediate premises thereof, except in places 
expressly allowed by the University, or drunken behavior within the University 
premises; 

d. Unauthorized or illegal possession or use of prohibited drugs or chemicals, 
or other banned substances enumerated in the Dangerous Drugs Act of 1972 
(as amended), such as LSD, marijuana, heroin, methamphetamine (shabu), 
or opiates and hallucinogenic drugs in any form within the University 
premises; 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  23 
 



e. Gambling within the University premises; 
f. Gross and deliberate discourtesy to any University official, faculty member 

or person in authority; 
g. Creating within the University premises disorder, tumult, breach of peace, or 

serious disturbance; 
h. Making a false statement of any material fact, or practicing or attempting to 

practice any deception or fraud in connection with his admission or 
registration in, or graduation from the University; 

i. Practicing or attempting to practice any deception or fraud in connection with 
his application in any University funded or sponsored scholarship or grant; 

j. Damaging or defacing University property; 
k. Disgraceful or immoral conduct within University premises; 
l. Unlawfully taking of University property; 
m. Any other form of misconduct. 

 
SECTION 3. Rules and Regulations Promulgated by Deans or Directors of Units - 
Deans or Directors of various units may, after due consultation with the Faculty Student 
Relations Committee, promulgate rules on conduct and discipline of peculiar application 
to their respective units, subject to the written approval of the President or Chancellor 
and  to the rules on circularization and date of effectivity, as herein provided. 
 
SECTION 4. Student Disciplinary Tribunal - There shall be a Student Disciplinary 
Tribunal composed of a chairman, who shall be a member of the Integrated Bar of the 
Philippines, and two (2) members to be appointed for a period of one (1) year from 
among the faculty and other staff of the University. In any disciplinary case before the 
tribunal, a respondent may request that two (2) students be appointed to sit with the 
tribunal. 
 
The Chairman and non-student members shall render full-time service in the tribunal. 
Chairman: ₱1,000.00 per hearing not to exceed ₱4,000.00 per case terminated 
Members: ₱700.00 per hearing not to exceed ₱2,800.00 per case 
terminated 
Recording Secretary: ₱600.00 per hearing not to exceed ₱2,400.00 per case 
terminated 
 
The tribunal shall be under the supervision of the Vice-Chancellor for Student Affairs, 
who shall designate, whenever requested, the student members to sit with the tribunal. 
 
Autonomous units shall set up their own student disciplinary tribunals in accordance 
with these rules. 
 
SECTION 5. Jurisdiction - All cases involving discipline of students under these rules 
shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the student disciplinary tribunal, except the following 
cases which shall fall under the jurisdiction of the appropriate college or unit: 
 

a. Violation of college or unit rules and regulations by students of the 
college, or 
b. Misconduct committed by students of the college or unit within its 

classrooms or premises or in the course of an official activity; 
 
Provided, that regional units of the University shall have original jurisdiction over all 
cases involving students of such units. 
 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  24 
 



SECTION 6. College Investigation - Investigation of cases falling under the 
jurisdiction of  a college  shall  be conducted  by a committee  of three 
(3) members appointed by the dean, one of whom shall be a student of the college. 
 
SECTION 7. Filing of Charges - A disciplinary proceeding shall be instituted motu 
proprio by the appropriate authority or upon the filing of a written charge specifying the 
acts of omission constituting the misconduct and subscribed to by the complainant or 
upon submission of an official report of any violation of existing rules and regulations. 
Upon the filing of said charge or report with the student disciplinary tribunal or the office 
of the Dean, as the case may be, an entry shall be made in an official entry book kept 
for the purpose, specifying the person or persons charged, the complainant or 
complainants, his witnesses, if any, the date of filing, and the substances of the charge. 
 
SECTION 8. Preliminary Inquiry - Upon receipt of the complaint or report, the tribunal 
or the Dean of the College, as the case may be, shall determine whether such complaint 
or report is sufficient to warrant formal investigation. In all cases where the complaint or 
report is found sufficient, formal charge or charges shall be drawn up and served upon 
each respondent. In every case, the parents or guardians of the students charged shall 
be furnished with a copy of the same. 
 
SECTION 9. Answer - Each respondent shall be required to answer in writing within 
three (3) days from receipt of the charge or charges. Formal investigation shall be held 
on notice as provided below. 
 
SECTION 10. Hearing - Hearings shall begin no later than one (1) week after receipt of 
the respondent’s answer or after the expiration of the period within which the respondent 
should answer. 
 
 SECTION 11. Duration of Hearing - No hearing on any case shall last beyond two (2) 
calendar months. 
 
SECTION 12. Notice of Hearing - All parties concerned shall be notified of the date set 
for hearing at least two (2) days before such hearing. Notice to counsel of record or duly 
authorized representative of a party shall be sufficient notice for the purpose of this 
section. 
 
SECTION 13. Failure to Appear at Hearing - Should either complainant or respondent 
fail to appear for the initial hearing after due notice and without sufficient cause, this fact 
shall be noted, and the hearing shall proceed ex parte without prejudice to the party’s 
appearance in subsequent hearings. 
 
SECTION 14. Postponement - Application for postponement may be granted for good 
cause for such period as the ends of justice and the right of the parties to a speedy 
hearing require. 
 
SECTION 15. Committee Report - The college investigating committee shall forward to 
the dean concerned within fifteen (15) days after the termination of the hearing the 
complete record of the case, with its report and recommendation. The recommendation 
signed by a majority of the members of the Committee shall state the findings of fact and 
the specific regulations on which it is based. 
 
SECTION 16. Action by the Dean - The Dean shall, within ten (10) days from receipt 
of the Committee report, transmit the report, together with his decision or 
recommendation, to the President of the University or the Chancellor of an autonomous 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  25 
 



unit, as the case may be. 
 
SECTION 17. Decision of the Tribunal - The tribunal shall decide each case within 
fifteen (15) days from final submission. The decision shall be in writing and signed by a 
majority of its members. It shall include a brief statement of the findings of fact and the 
specific regulations on which the decision is based. 
 
SECTION 18. Finality of Decision - Any decision of the tribunal or of a Dean, other than 
expulsion, permanent disqualification from enrollment, or suspension for more than thirty 
(30) calendar days, shall become final and executory after fifteen (15) days from receipt 
of the decision by the respondent unless within five (5) days from receipt thereof a motion 
for reconsideration of the same is filed, in which case the decision shall be final after 
fifteen (15) days from receipt of the action on the motion for reconsideration. 
 
SECTION 19. Appeal to the President or Chancellor - In all cases in which final 
decision is not conferred on a Dean or the Tribunal, the respondent may file an appeal 
with the President or the Chancellor within ten (10) days exclusive of Sundays and official 
holidays b after receipt of the decision. 
 
SECTION 20. Action by the President or Chancellor - Action of the President or 
Chancellor on recommendation coming from the Dean on appeal from a decision of a 
Dean or the Tribunal shall be rendered within ten (10) days exclusive of Sundays and 
official holidays b after receipt of the appeal. 
 
The Executive Committee shall automatically review and decide all student disciplinary 
cases in which the penalty of suspension for one (1) year or more, expulsion, and 
withdrawal of registration privileges is imposed. 
 
The authority given to the Executive Committee under this rule is understood to include 
the power to affirm, reverse, decrease or increase the penalties imposed in the cases 
under review. 
 
The decision of the Executive Committee shall be final and executory after fifteen (15) 
days from receipt of the decision by the respondent unless, in the meantime, an appeal 
is made to, and given due course, by the Board of Regents. 
 
SECTION 21. Action by the Board of Regents - The Board may review on appeal 
decisions of the President or Chancellor when the penalty imposed is expulsion, 
suspension for more than one (1) academic year, or any other penalty of equivalent 
severity. 
 
SECTION 22. Rights of Respondents - Each respondent shall enjoy the following 
rights: 

a. Not to be subjected to any disciplinary penalty except upon due 
process of law; 
b. To be convicted only on the basis of substantial evidence, the burden of proof 
being with the person bringing the charge; 
c. To be convicted only on evidence introduced at the proceedings or of 
which the respondent has been properly apprised; 
d. Pending final decision on any charge, to enjoy all his rights and privileges as 
a student, subject to the power of the Dean or the tribunal to order the preventive 
suspension of the respondent for not more than fifteen (15) days where 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  26 
 



suspension is necessary to maintain the security of the college or the University. 
e. To defend himself personally, or by counsel, or representative of his own 
choice. If the respondent should desire but is unable to secure the services of 
counsel, he should manifest that fact two (2) days before the date of hearing, and 
request the tribunal or the investigating committee to designate counsel for him 
from among the members of the University constituency. 

 
SECTION 23. Effect of Decision - Decisions shall take effect as provided in these rules. 
However, final decisions of suspension or dismissal within thirty (30) days prior to any 
final examination, shall take effect during the subsequent semester, except when the 
respondent is graduating, in which case the penalty shall immediately take effect. 
 
SECTION 24. Records - All proceedings before any tribunal or Committee shall be set 
down in writing by a competent stenographer. Original records pertaining to student 
discipline shall be under the custody of the Vice- Chancellor for Student Affairs. Such 
records are hereby declared confidential and no person shall have access to the same 
for inspection or copying unless he is involved therein, or unless he has a legal right 
which cannot be protected or vindicated without access to or copying of such records. 
Any University official or employee who shall violate the confidential nature of such 
records shall be subject to disciplinary action. 
 

  SECTION 25. Sanctions 
a. Any student found guilty of the misconduct defined in Section 2 (a) shall be 

penalized with suspension for not less than one (1) year. 
1) All cases involving cheating or dishonesty shall be investigated by a 

College/Unit but shall automatically be subject to review by the 
Chancellor. 

2) Students found guilty of cheating/dishonesty shall be barred from 
graduating with honors, even if their weighted average is within the 
requirement for graduation with honors. 

b. Any student found guilty of the misconduct defined in section 2 (b) shall be 
penalized as follows: 

1) For the first offense, suspension for a period not less than fifteen 
(15) calendar days but not more than thirty (30) calendar days; 
2) For the second offense, suspension for a period of not less than thirty 
calendar days but not more than one (1) semester; 
3) For the third offense , the penalty shall be Expulsion; Provided, that 
should the deadly weapon be a firearm, the penalty for first the offense shall 
be suspension for not less than thirty (30) calendar days but not more than 
one (1) semester; for the second offense, the penalty shall be Expulsion. 

c. Any student found guilty of the misconduct defined in Section 2 (c) shall be 
penalized with suspension for not less than seven (7) calendar days, but not 
more than thirty (30) calendar days; Provided, that should the student be found 
guilty for the fourth time, the penalty shall be Expulsion. 

d. Any student found guilty of the misconduct defined in Section 2 (d) shall be 
penalized with suspension for not less than fifteen (15) calendar days, but not 
more than forty-five (45) calendar days; Provided, that should the student be 
found guilty for the third time, the penalty shall be Expulsion. 

e. Any student found guilty of the misconduct defined in Section 2 (e) shall be 
penalized with suspension for not less than seven (7) calendar days, but not 
more than thirty (30) calendar days; Provided, that should the student be found 
guilty for the fourth time,  the penalty shall be Expulsion. 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  27 
 



f. Any student found guilty of the misconduct defined in Section 2 (f) shall be 
penalized with suspension for not less than thirty (30) calendar days, but not 
more than one (1) semester; Provided, that the penalty for the second offense 
shall be Expulsion; and Provided further, that should the student assault, strike, 
or inflict physical violence upon any University official, faculty member or person 
in authority, the penalty shall be Expulsion. 

g. Any student found guilty of the misconduct defined in Section 2 (g) shall be 
penalized with suspension for not less than fifteen (15) calendar days, but not 
more than forty-five (45) calendar days; Provided, that should the student be 
found guilty for the third time, the penalty shall be Expulsion. 

h. Any student found guilty of the misconduct defined in Section 2 (h) shall be 
penalized as follows: 

1) For the first offense, by suspension for a period of not less than one (1) 
semester, but not more than one (1) year; 

2) For the second offense, the penalty shall be Expulsion. 
i. Any student found guilty of the misconduct defined in Section 2 (i) shall be 

penalized as follows: 
1) For the first offense, by suspension for a period of not less than one (1) 

semester, but not more than one (1) year; 
2) For the second offense, the penalty shall be Expulsion. 
3) Any student found guilty of willfully withholding or misrepresenting 

information in his application to the Socialized Tuition System (STS) shall be 
subject to the following guidelines on penalties for STS violations: 

i. If the information withheld involves common appliances, e.g. owned 
by majority of the population, the recommended penalty is one semester 
suspension, reimbursement of STS benefits received, plus permanent 
disqualification from STS and other scholarships. 

ii. If the information withheld involves appliances which may be used to 
indicate capacity to pay, the recommended penalty  is one year suspension, 
reimbursement of STS benefits received and permanent disqualification from 
STS and other scholarships. 

iii. If the information withheld is substantial such as car, income 
employment, real properties, the recommended penalty is expulsion plus 
reimbursement of all STS benefits. 

iv. If the student is found to have submitted falsified documents, the 
recommended penalty is expulsion plus reimbursement of STS benefits. 

v. If the student pleads guilty, he should be made to reimburse all STS 
benefits received either before the decision is made or reimbursement is made 
a precondition for enrollment. 

Furthermore, if the information withheld is grave such as in Nos. 3), c and 3), d 
above, the recommended penalty is two years suspension and permanent 
disqualification from STS and other scholarships. 

j. Any student found guilty of the misconduct defined in Section 2 (j) shall be 
penalized with suspension for not less than fifteen (15) 

calendar days, but not more than forty-five (45) calendar days; Provided, that should 
the student be found guilty for the third time, the penalty shall be Expulsion. In 
addition, the student may also be required to pay for the repair and/or 
replacement of the damaged property. 

k. Any student found guilty of the misconduct defined in Section 2 (k) shall be 
penalized with suspension for not less than seven (7) calendar days, but not 
more than thirty (30) calendar days; Provided, that should the student be found 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  28 
 



guilty for the third time, the penalty shall be Expulsion. 
l. Any student found guilty of the misconduct defined in Section 2 (I) shall be 

penalized with suspension for not less than fifteen (15) calendar days, but not 
more than forty-five (45) calendar days; Provided, that should the student be 
found guilty for the third time, the penalty shall be Expulsion. In addition, the 
student may also be required to pay for, or replace, the stolen property. 

m. The disciplinary action that may be imposed for violations of the misconduct in 
Section 2 (m) may take the form of expulsion, suspension from the University, 
withholding of graduation and other privileges, withdrawal of registration 
privileges, permanent disqualification from enrollment, exclusion from any 
class, reprimand, warning, or expression of apology. The gravity of the offense 
committed and the circumstances attending its commission shall determine the 
nature of the disciplinary action or penalty to be imposed. 

n. The Dean or Director of the unit may impose the penalty of suspension for a 
period not exceeding one (1) calendar year. If he deems suspension for a longer 
period or expulsion is warranted, he shall so recommend to the Chancellor, who 
shall refer the case to the Executive Committee for final decision. 

o. Any disciplinary action taken against a student shall be reported to 
his parents or guardians. 
p. Refusal to submit to the jurisdiction of the University by any student not enrolled 

at the time a charge against him is filed shall prejudice his future enrollment in 
any unit of the University. 

 
 
SECTION 26. Summary Actions - Notwithstanding the provisions of the foregoing 
sections, a Dean may proceed summarily against a student of a college in the following 
cases: 
Violation of rules and regulations issued by the Dean of the unit in accordance with 
Section three of these rules; 

a. Misconduct committed in the presence of a faculty member or any official of 
the University within the classrooms or premises of a college, or in the course of 
an official function sponsored by the college. 
The respondent shall be summoned to appear before the Dean of the unit, 
informed of the charge against him, and afforded the opportunity to present his 
side. 
Decisions taken under this section shall be in writing, stating the grounds for 
which disciplinary penalty is imposed. Such decisions shall be final and executory 
upon the issuance of the order. The penalty imposed shall not exceed 
suspension for fifteen (15) days exclusive of Sundays and official holidays. 
b. The Vice-Chancellor for Student Affairs may likewise proceed summarily 
against students in cases of: 
1) Misconduct committed as provided in paragraph (b) of this Section, when 
committed within the University premises not falling within the jurisdiction of any 
college, school or unit or in the course of an official function sponsored by the 
University or a Unit other than a college, school, or academic unit. 
2) Misconduct as defined in Section 2 (g) above, whether or not the acts are 
committed within the premises of, and by persons belonging to, one or several 
colleges, schools, or units. 

 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  29 
 



 SECTION 27. Definitions - The following terms shall have the meaning set forth 
below for purposes of these regulations: 

a. “Autonomous unit” refers to such universities or units of the University of the 
Philippines System which have been declared autonomous by law or by the 
Board of Regents; 
b. “Regional unit” refers to units outside of Diliman and Manila which are not 
autonomous; 
c. “Student” shall refer to any person (1) admitted and registered, in a degree 
or non-degree program or cross-registered in any course of the University on a 
regular or part-time basis, including those  who are officially on leave of absence 
and (2) who has not yet been separated from the University formally through 
either transfer, graduation, honorable or dishonorable dismissal or expulsion or 
expiration of the period allowed for maximum residence, at the time of the 
commission of the offense, regardless of whether or not he is enrolled in any 
unit of the University at the time of the filing of the charge or during the pendency 
of the disciplinary proceedings against him; 
d. “Laws of the land” shall refer to general enactments in force in the 
Philippines; 
e. “Official Report” shall include any report duly submitted in writing to any 
proper authority in the University by a faculty member, any member of the 
University security force, any officer of a college or unit, or any officer of the 
University administration. 

SECTION 28. These rules shall supersede all previous rules on student discipline 
and shall take effect upon approval. Amendments to these rules shall be circularized 
within ten (10) days after approval and shall take effect fifteen (15) days after 
circularization, unless a specific date has been set, which date shall in no case be within 
(5) days after its approval. 
 
V. OFFICE OF ANTI-SEXUAL HARASSMENT (OASH) 
 
OASH adheres to UP’s underlying principle which is to establish and maintain and 
intellectual and moral environment that the human dignity and worth of all members of 
the academic community are guaranteed full respect. UP Cebu shall be a safe and 
secured place free from any form of sexual harassment, injustice, and inequalities.  
 
Sexual Harassment defined by thee UP Sexual Harassment Code is unwanted, 
unwelcome, uninvited behavior  of a sexual nature or inappropriate sexual advances or 
offensive remarks about a person’s sex, sexual orientation, or gender identity. Sexual 
harassment constitutes a ground for administrative disciplinary action under the offense 
of simple misconduct, disgraceful and immoral conduct, conduct prejudicial to the best 
interest of the service or grave misconduct. 
 
A student found guilty of simple misconduct involving sexual harassment shall be 
penalized with a suspension for not less than one 
(1) calendar day but not more than 30 calendar days; provided that, should the 
student be found guilty for the third time, the penalty shall be expulsion. Grave 
misconduct involving sexual harassment shall be punishable by expulsion. 
 
 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  30 
 



VI. UP GENDER AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM 
 
UP Gender Development Program started in 1989 as a core of women from the three 
UPV campuses (Iloilo, Tacloban, Cebu) who were interested in promoting the welfare of 
other women. 
It evolved into the UPV Women's Desk in 1990 as an organization of women and men 
from the various sectors and colleges of UPV who were interested in women's studies 
and women's welfare. 
It became institutionalized as the UPV Gender and Development Program (GDP) upon 
the approval of the Board of Regents on April 17, 1997. 
In 2000, the Women's Desk became the Gender and Development Office. Its mandate 
is in line with that of the UCWS’ -- to encourage and strengthen teaching, research 
extension and advocacy on and for women in the university.  
 
Until today, UP Cebu GAD continues to play a leading role in engendering the curriculum 
and in helping transform LGUs, communities and institutions to become gender-
responsive and promote rights of women, with the following vision and objectives: 
 
Vision 
 
We envision a Philippine Society that is free from all forms of gender discrimination and 
inequalities across all sectors, particularly the marginalized. It is a society that is 
inclusive, equitable, and just. This is enabled by nurturing gender responsive institutions 
anchored on democratic and feminist ideals geared towards economic, political, social, 
and cultural empowerment. 
 
Objectives 
UP Cebu GAD takes a leading role in engendering the curriculum in the University and 
in helping transform policy frameworks and programs of government agencies, 
communities and institutions to become gender responsive and to promote women’s 
rights. 
What does UP GDP do?  (Projects and Activities) 
Conduct seminars and workshops in line with curriculum development, engendering of 
the curriculum 

o Sponsor activities such as fora, symposium and trainings about gender and 
development in and out of campus 

o Link with other offices (government and non-government) for partnerships in 
programs and activities 

o Research and Publications: Conduct of Feminist Researches 
o We have modest collections of books and materials on a wide range of topics. 

Visit our office to see more of our collections and lists of available resource 
materials. 
 

 
 
 
 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  31 
 



VII. STUDENT AFFAIRS AND SERVICES 
 
In support to UP Cebu's academic offerings, the Office of Student Affairs (OSA) provides 
services that respond to various needs of students through the following services: 
 
1. Guidance & Counseling 
 

Counseling 
Students are guided in making decisions about personal, vocational and 
educational concerns with the help of a professional counselor. Counseling 
sessions are done with individual students or groups. Students are 
accommodated either as scheduled or as walk-ins. 

 
Group Guidance 

Weekly group guidance sessions are held for students to help them adjust to 
college life and the academic life in UP and help them in their emotional and 
psychological growth.  

 
Peer Facilitators Program 

 
The program trains a group of selected students to be Peer Facilitators & function 
as conduits between the students and the Guidance Services Specialists (GSS). 
They work hand in hand with the Guidance Services Specialists in assisting 
students to cope with the challenges of college life. 

 
    2. Psychological Testing 
 
 
Psychological test results are used as tools in the counseling process. Aptitude and 
Interest Tests are administered as requested or as the need arises, for better 
understanding and awareness of students’ potentials  
 
External Testing - Provide testing services to requesting companies and industries. 
 
  3. Career Guidance, Job Placement and Follow-up 
 
Students are guided in identifying and developing career paths through career 
symposium, job fair and campus interviews. These are followed up in subsequent 
counseling sessions. Students are informed of various educational and occupational 
opportunities. 
 
 4.   Scholarships and Financial Assistance 
 
a. RA 10931- Universal Access to Tertiary Education Act of 2017 
 
Filipino Students who are either currently at the time of effectivity of the Free Tertiary 
Education Act, or shall enroll anytime thereafter, in courses leading to a bachelor’s 
degree in any SUC or LUC shall be exempted from paying tuition and other school fees 
for units enrolled in. Students will be eligible to receive these benefits provided they 
qualify under the admission and retention requirements of UP Cebu.  
 
The following students are ineligible to avail of free higher education: 
 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  32 
 



o Students who have already obtained a bachelor’s degree or comparable 
undergraduate degree from any public or private HEI 

o Students who fail to comply with the admission and retention policies of UP 
Cebu, resulting in the student’s permanent disqualification from enrolling 

o Students who fail to complete their bachelor’s degree within a year after the 
period prescribed in their program. 

o Students who voluntarily opt out 
In cases where students are ineligible for the RA 10931, they can still avail of free or 
discounted tuition and other school fees, through  UP’s Socialized Tuition System 
(STS). 
 
     b. Socialized Tuition System (STS) 
 
UP created the Socialized Tuition System (ST System) to reduce the cost paid by 
students during enrollment, based on the paying capacity of the household to which a 
student belongs. Through the ST System, UP may subsidize a portion or the full cost 
required during enrollment and, in certain cases, grant additional subsidy to waive 
miscellaneous fees and grant monthly cash allowances.  
The ST System is open to undergraduate students, including students enrolled in Law 
and Medicine. The ST System was approved by the UP Board of Regents on 16 
December 2013. STS application is made through the SFA Online. 

c. SFA Online  

Application for the Socialized Tuition System is done through the SFA online portal. All 
students are encouraged to make an application at this portal even those enjoying the 
benefits of RA 10931 to have the chance to avail of other government and private 
financial assistance programs.  
The SFA Online accepts applications from: 
1. Filipino students 
 
2. Bonafide undergraduate UP students, including those enrolled in Law and Medicine 
programs of UP. Except for students of Law and Medicine, the applicant must not have 
a bachelor's degree. For new students, the applicant must have an admission slip. 

 
3. Students in need of financial assistance as determined by the guidelines that govern 
these financial assistance programs. 
 
In certain cases, UP grants additional subsidy to waive miscellaneous fees and grant 
monthly cash allowances. 
Tuition discounts and other financial assistance from STS shall be for one academic 
year, renewable annually. 
 
Below is the table for Tuition Discount based on the paying capacity of the household 
to which a student belongs.  
 
 
 

 TUITION 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  33 
 



Tuition Discount Tuition Tuition 
Discount in ₱ Other Financial 

Assistance 

Partial Discount 40% 40% ₱600/unit  

Partial Discount 60% 60% ₱400/unit  

Partial Discount 80% 80% ₱200/unit  

Full Discount 100% Free Free miscellaneous 
Tuition + Free laboratory 

fees 
Full Discount   Free miscellaneous 

+ Stipend 100% Free + Free laboratory 
Tuition fees 

+ Monthly Stipend 
 

Students who will be granted Full Discount + Stipend will receive monthly allowance for two 
semesters. 

d. Student Assistantship Program 
 
The program provides students the opportunity to earn ₱60.00 per hour (for a minimum of 
30 hours per month) by working for UP. However, priority is given to low income students.  
First years are qualified to apply in the 2nd Semester only. 
 
e. Student Loan Program 
 
A student who is unable to pay the required tuition and other fees due to financial incapacity 
may apply for, and shall be granted, a loan from the Student Loan Board to complete the 
registration.  Application forms are available at the Office of Student Affairs/Accounting 
Office. 
 
f. Meal Assistance Program 
 
The program provides qualified students to avail of a free meal at the UP Cebu Canteen 
equivalent to ₱60.00 per day.  This is a sponsored program with donations coming from 
some of our generous administrators/faculty. 
 
Aside from the STS and UP System Scholarship, there are other government & private 
scholarships that can be availed of. 
 
g. Donor-funded Scholarship Programs 
Donor-funded Scholarship Programs are financial assistance programs funded by private 
individuals and organizations. These programs are managed by Scholarship and Financial 
Assistance units in different campuses of the University. 
Applicants to donor-funded scholarship programs are required to submit application forms to 
Scholarship and Financial Assistance units in their campus. 
To process applications, Scholarship Affairs personnel use the information submitted by 
students in SFA Online. Slots are assigned to SFA Online applicants that match the 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  34 
 



requirements provided in the donor-funded scholarship program guidelines. 
 
h. The Kadaganan Fund 
 
Kadaganan Fund is a program established by the University of the Philippines Cebu 
Office of Student Affairs (UP Cebu OSA) to help students who have immediate needs 
such as food, boarding fees, transportation, or school requirements, but have no money. 
Any registered student of UP Cebu can borrow money from the fund, with a maximum 
amount of P500.00, payable within two months. 
 
Kadaganan in Cebuano means “somebody whom anybody can run to for help, protection 
or refuge.” UP Cebu wants its students to have a “Kadaganan” during times of urgent 
financial needs through this program.  The first donor of the Kadaganan fund was the 
UPhill Run of UP Cebu through the event organizer Dr. Jonnifer Sinogaya, hence 
another reason to call this program “Kadaganan”. 
 
Application Process 
 
The Scholarships and Financial Assistance team of OSA headed by the GSS in-charged 
of Scholarships and Financial Assistance will be the main personnel in–charge of the 
Fund. Any student who wish to avail of this service must fill up the application form 
attached (Appendix Form 5). The applicants will then be interviewed to verify the 
information they have given in the application form and for assessment. The final 
approval of the application will be from the OSA Director. Upon approval, students can 
claim the amount they wish to borrow directly from OSA through the Administrative 
Assistant of STS and Financial Assistance. 
 
Terms of Payment 
 
Student will give payments directly to OSA through the Administrative Assistant of STS 
and Financial Assistance. Students who are not able to pay their loan within two months 
will receive a verbal notice. After three months of failure to pay, he/she will receive a 
written notice and an email to remind him/her of unpaid loan. Any student who have 
accountabilities from the Kadaganan fund cannot avail of any additional loan and cannot 
obtain clearance from OSA. 
 
Donation to the Fund 
 
Anyone inside and outside UP Cebu can donate to the Kadaganan Fund. Donations are 
directly given to the Office of Student Affairs through the Scholarships and Financial 
Assistance Team.  

 
 
VIII.  RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING STUDENT ORGANIZATION, 
FRATERNITIES, AND SORORITIES  
 
1. Rationale 
The holistic development of the person is not realized only in terms of academics. Among 
other things, the development of one’s academic, emotional, cultural, physical, social 
and psychological domains as well as leadership skills are also necessary in shaping 
the total person.  Opportunities for student leadership and involvement in student 
organizations and activities provide an avenue for the total person to develop outside 
the four walls of a classroom. 
  

UP Cebu Student Handbook  35 
 



While it is important that student organizations are afforded greater autonomy in 
managing their affairs, it is but necessary to provide a structure which ensures that 
student organizations operate in a way that advances the holistic development and 
growth of their membership. 
  
2.  Definition of Terms 
  
Student organization – any group of at least fifteen students (15) that share a common 
interest and subscribing to similar objectives with a constitution and by-laws and a set of 
activities for the academic year. 
  
Term of office – the duration of which an officer serves a certain position, as defined in 
the constitution and by-laws of the organization being served within the academic year.  
 
3.  Scope of the Guidelines 
 
    The UP Cebu Student Organizations and Activities Guidelines shall cover all student 
organizations in UP Cebu (both high school and college). Other guidelines for student 
activities may be formulated by the University (e.g. Guidelines for Fine Arts installation 
of arts projects, Management guidelines for business plans, SC discipline committee 
guidelines, etc.)  
 
4. Organizational Structure 
       Student organizations and activities in UP Cebu will be coordinated by the Office 
of Student Affairs and under the supervision of the Vice Chancellor for Academic 
Affairs /or Vice Chancellor for Administration. 

     
5.  General Policies 
i. Student Organizations are classified as: 
 

a)     Student Council 
b)    Student Publication 
c)     Program Based Organizations 
d)    Cultural Performing Groups 
e)     Socio-Civic Organizations 
f)     Political Organizations 
g)    Fraternities & Sororities (only for college students above 18 years    old) 
h)    Year level or Batch organizations 
i)      Interest Groups 
j)      Scholarship Based Group 
k)    Sports Club 
l)       Regional Groups 

  
ii. Student Council & Student Publication 
 
     Student Council & Student Publication whose constitution and by-laws have been 
approved by higher authorities (BOR) need not apply for annual recognition with the 
Office of Student Affairs. However, they are still covered by other provisions of the 
guidelines such as to submit the letter of acceptance of their chosen adviser(s), year-
end financial report and year end accomplishment report. 
  
      iii. Recognition of Student Organizations 
 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  36 
 



  Student organizations with at least ten (10) members, majority of which are bona fide 
students of the university and whose five (5) officers are UP students with a total of 
fifteen (15) must apply for recognition in order to enjoy the privileges afforded only to 
duly recognized student organizations and to operate legitimately. Application for 
recognition is done annually. The deadline for recognition of student organizations is 
thirty (30) calendar days after the start of classes in the first semester. However, student 
organizations who fail to apply for recognition during the first semester may still apply for 
recognition in the second semester not later than 30 days after the start of classes. The 
recognition of a student organization is valid from the approval of recognition until the 
deadline for the application for recognition of the succeeding academic year. Listing of 
requirements to be submitted are found at the Office of Student Affairs.  
  
Procedure for Recognition of Student Organizations 
 
    For any student organization who wants to apply for recognition, one (1) set of printed 
documents filed in a long folder must be submitted to the Office of Student Affairs not 
later than 30 calendar days from start of classes in the First Semester of the Academic 
Year. 
    Another one (1) set of the submitted documents shall be scanned and sent as e-copy 
in pdf-file and emailed to osa.upcebu@up.edu.ph in the following order: 
  
a)  Application Letter addressed to the Chancellor signed by Pres./Adviser (SOA Form 
No.1) 
b)  Letter of Acceptance of Adviser and endorsed by Dean/ Admin. Head (SOA Form 
No. 2A) 
c)   Letter of Acceptance of Co-adviser , if applicable (SOA Form No.2B)   
d) List of Officers and their respective ID pictures and specimen signatures, photocopy 
of their grades for the preceding semester and Form 5 to determine study load and 
enrolment of the current semester  (SOA Form 3)   
e)  Roster of Members with course/program enrolled, contact no. and email address as 
indicated in the Form 5 (SOA Form 4) 
f)   Copy of the Constitution and By-Laws ( as amended and revised) 
g)  Calendar of General Plan of Activities – GPOA with Name of Activities, Person In 
Charge, and Tentative Amount and Source of Budget (SOA Form5) 
h)   Accomplishment Report (SOA Form 6) 
i)    Financial Report or Status of Funds (SOA Form 7) 
 
iv. Qualifications & Responsibilities of Advisers & Co-Advisers 
 
     Only faculty members who have at least one (1) year teaching experience and/ or 
administration staff/ REPS with at least two (2) years’ experience in UP Cebu may 
become an adviser of a student organization. Faculty member and administration 
staff/REPS must consult with their College Dean/ Program Coordinator and/ or 
Immediate Supervisor respectively before accepting the adviser-ship of a student 
organization. Others who may not qualify to become advisers may be asked to be co-
advisers. Duties and responsibilities of the adviser are to be embodied in the Constitution 
and by-laws of the organization. 
     The responsibilities of advisers and co-advisers extend to both on and off-campus 
activities. The adviser, a more experienced and concerned mentor-elder in the 
university, provides advice to the members of the organization not only on how to 
achieve organizational goals but also on the development of individual members as 
responsible and concerned citizens. 
    The adviser and co-adviser may only accept at most two (2) student organizations 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  37 
 



only. 
 
v.  Qualifications of Student Officers 
 
(a)  Grade Requirements 
 a.1 Student Council Officers must be in good academic standing and must not have 
incurred a grade of 5.0 in the semester immediately preceding the term of office. A 
Student Council Officer must have no more than 50% of the enrolled subjects of the 
immediately preceding semester dropped. The term of office of the student council shall 
be defined in the constitution of the student council. 
a.2 Editor-in-Chief of Student Publication must be in good academic standing and must 
not have incurred a grade of 5.0 in the semester immediately preceding the term of office. 
Editor-in-Chief must have no more than 50% of the enrolled subjects of the immediately 
preceding semester dropped. The term of office of the editor in chief shall be defined in 
the constitution of the student publication.  
a.3 Officers of Student Organizations must be in good academic standing and must have 
a GWA of 3.0 or better. He/she must have no more than 50% of the enrolled subjects of 
the immediately preceding semester dropped. 
  (b) Academic Load Requirements 
b.1 Officers of all student organizations must be enrolled in at least three (3) units in 
the semester he/she is serving as an officer. 
b.2 Student Council Officers must carry the prescribed academic load for the academic 
year after the election. 
b.3 Editor-in-Chief of the Student Publication must carry the prescribed academic load 
for the semester(s) within the term of office 
     (c ) Other requirements 
     A student may only hold the position of President /Chairperson or its equivalent in 
only one (1) student organization. 
   
6.  Rights and Responsibilities 
A. Rights and Privileges of Duly Recognized Student Organizations are as follows: 
a.  Use of campus facilities (grounds, classrooms, buildings, etc.) and personal 
services, subject to the rules and regulations on the use of such, as provided official 
academic activities are not prejudiced;  
b.   Representation, through the UP Cebu Student Council, in standing committees 
which concern student welfare and interest; 
c.  For duly and fully recognized student organizations, their officers and members 
may be appointed representatives of the University in community activities are 
requested or recommended by the Chancellor or his/her representatives (VCAA/VC 
Admin.). 
B. Moratorium on Student Activities 
There is a moratorium on student activities starting one (1) month and strictly two (2) 
weeks before the end of classes until the last day of the final exams period. During this 
period, no student activities of any kind will be permitted except for business meetings. 
C. Guidelines for Fraternities & Sororities 
Initiation of students, which inflict physical or moral damage, is strictly prohibited. 
Fraternities and sororities are not allowed to recruit students who are below 18 years of 
age. 
D.  Submission of Reports 
a. Accomplishment Reports (AR) 
       Duly recognized student organizations are required to submit an 
accomplishment report to the Office of Student Affairs every end of the academic year. 
The deadline for submission of accomplishment report is two (2) weeks before the end 
of classes in the second semester. Failure to submit the report will be counted against 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  38 
 



the renewal for the recognition of the student organization for the next academic year. 
The accomplishment report must follow the prescribed format from the Office of Student 
Affairs and bear the written approval & signatures of the President and their Adviser/ Co-
Adviser. 
  
  b. Financial Status Reports (FSR) 
     Duly recognized student organizations are required to submit a financial report to the 
Office of Student Affairs every end of the academic year. The deadline for submission 
of financial status reports is two (2) weeks before the end of classes in the second 
semester. Failure to submit the report will be counted against the renewal for the 
recognition of the student organization for the next academic year. The financial report 
must follow the prescribed format from the Office of Student Affairs and bear the written 
signature of President and approval by the Adviser/Co-Adviser. 
  
7. Withdrawal of Recognition of Student Organization 
 
Recognition may be reverted or also withdrawn as the case may be, upon cause and 
after due process. Grounds for withdrawal may be in the form of willful violation of UP 
Cebu rules and regulations in general, and the UP Cebu Student Organization and 
Activities guidelines in particular. Jurisdiction over cases involving student organizations 
rests on the University committee convened for the purpose, chaired by the OSA Director 
and whose membership include two (2) faculty representatives, the vice chairperson of 
the Student Council and the student rights and welfare committee chair of the Student 
Council. 
 
8.   Guidelines for the Conduct of Activities                           
a)     No organization may start an activity except the holding of business meetings 
without prior approval of their recognition by the Office of Student Affairs; 
b)    For activities that require the use of electricity and/or use of areas within UP Cebu 
roofed spaces except tambayans and other areas utilized for academic and non-
academic purposes, the organization has to complete the general request form 
(GRF)/event sheet. For activities within campus that do not fall under this provision, the 
organization shall still inform formally by writing a letter to the Office of Student Affairs 
Coordinator about the activity. 
c)     For activities outside the campus organized or initiated by a recognized student 
organization, prior approval must be secured from the Office of the Chancellor through 
proper channels and endorsed by the Office of Student Affairs. 
d)  Students participating in activities outside the campus which are organized by non-
recognized student organizations, either as individual student or as a representative of 
an organization, shall inform the Office of Student Affairs of such participation and with 
the understanding that all other requirements shall have been fulfilled (e.g. waivers); 
e)   Permits to hold activities are to be filed three (3) working days before the activity. All 
forms pass through prescribed proper channels. Any request shall only be considered 
filed upon reaching the proper office for final approval. 
d)    The organization shall be held responsible for damage or defacement of University 
facilities as well as orderliness and cleanliness of the premises during and immediately 
after the activity. Solid waste management guidelines must be submitted for putting up 
of concessionaires. Concessionaire shall pay a bond that ensures cleanliness of the 
premises and pulling out their facilities after the event. 
e)  In evening affairs and activities that involve the attendance of an audience of 200 or 
more people involving non-UP constituents and/or activities that conclude after the 
established curfew hours, the organization is required to provide for extra security 
officers. Security guidelines must be submitted along with the general request form/ 
event sheet and a list of at least ten (10) chaperones from among the ranks of faculty 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  39 
 



members and administration staff also be provided. 
f)     All student activities must observe curfew hours established by the school and the 
local and national government 
g.) For activities conducted in the campus which are open to the general public, 
organizers will be required to submit their Security Contingency Plan, including 
supplemental security guards and other law enforcing personnel. They are also required 
to submit Solid Waste Management Plan, Floor plan of the stage and other booths with 
listing of names of concessionaires. The campus security officer must countersign the 
security contingency plan and campus development & maintenance office head must 
countersign the Solid Waste management plan respectively before the activity will be 
endorsed for approval by the Chancellor. 
(g.a) Activities done in a contained area of the campus, such as AVR, Conference Hall, 
Interactive Learning Center, and similar venues may be done without need for 
supplemental security personnel, though they may opt to have one at their expense; 
(g.b) For activities done in multiple venues of the campus and other areas other than the 
ones mentioned above, organizers are required to provide additional security personnel, 
the number of which will depend on how many areas of the campus will be used; 
(g.c) For activities conducted at night, organizers are required to provide at least two (2) 
additional security officers for the duration of the activity excluding barangay tanods and 
law enforcement officers; 
 (g.d) All request for additional security details should be coordinated with UP Cebu’s 
campus security officer. All expenses incurred for additional security detail shall be 
charged to the account of the organizers. 
 
9. Income Generating Projects/ Fund Raising Activities 
 
a) Applications for fund raising activities must indicate their specific purposes. Fund 
raising for the enjoyment of the organization members such as parties shall not be 
allowed. 
b) Tickets or their equivalent must be numbered and must bear the signature of duly 
authorized officers of the organization with necessary permits from respective 
government agency (e.g. BIR, City Hall, etc.); 
c) Any collection, contribution, proceeds, etc. must be duly receipted or listed. They are 
to be accounted within two (2) weeks after the activity. The financial report must be 
submitted to the Office of Student Affairs or in case of college organizations, to the 
College Dean/ for high school Committee Chair of Student Affairs and evidence must be 
shown that proceeds have been expensed for the approved purpose and given to the 
beneficiaries, if any. 
d. Any reimbursement or procurement must be consulted with the SPMO, BAC, and 
Accounting Office with proper approval from  authorized school officials. 
        
  
 
10. Actionable Misconduct and Penalties 
 
These rules shall apply to all fraternities, sororities and other student organizations, 
regardless of whether or not they are officially recognized by the University and without 
prejudice to the provisions of R.A. No. 8094, otherwise known as the “Anti-Hazing Law”. 
 
Section 1 
Members and officers of fraternities, sororities and other student organizations shall be 
subject to disciplinary action for the following acts and shall be penalized as follows: 
 
A. Any such member or officer who commits or engages in, any of the acts 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  40 
 



specified below shall be expelled from the University whether or not the acts are 
committed within or outside University premises: 
 

1. Participating in any rumble, engaging in fisticuffs with, or physically 
attacking a member of other fraternities, sororities or other student organizations. 
2. Physically attacking any other student or official faculty member or 
employee of the University or any other person in connection with any matter 
relating to fraternities, sororities or other student organizations. 
 
A rumble is a violent confrontation between two or more students belonging to 
different fraternities, sororities or other student organizations. 

 
B. Any such member or officer who engages in any form of physical 
initiation or hazing resulting in or causing physical injury, as   well   as  the  neophyte   
who   allows  himself/herself   to  be 
subjected to hazing, shall be expelled, unless the student concerned agrees to become 
a witness for the University. 
C. Any such member or officer who commits acts of provocation which result in 
heated confrontation between fraternities, sororities and other student organizations 
shall be suspended for one (1) year; provided, however, that in case the provocation 
results in a rumble, fisticuffs or a physical attack, the erring student shall be expelled 
from the University. 
 
There is sufficient provocation when a person or party excites, incites or induces another 
to execute an act; when one irritates or annoys one with improper or unjust acts, or words 
or deeds that are vexing. 
 
There is a heated confrontation when, as a result of the immediately preceding act of 
sufficient provocation, words are exchanged in a hostile, challenging, insulting, irritating 
or annoying manner or conduct between the parties. 
 
D. Any such member or officer who exhibits gross or deliberate discourtesy to any 
University official, faculty member, employee, disciplining authorities or their agents, in 
connection with fraternity, sorority and other student organization-related incident, shall 
be suspended for at least one (1) year. 
E. Any such member or officer found carrying or possessing within university 
premises any firearm, Molotov bomb, pillbox or other explosives, knife with a blade 
longer than two and a half (2 1/2) inches, metal pipe or any other dangerous or deadly 
weapon and banned substances enumerated under the Dangerous Drugs Act (R.A. 
6425, as amended) shall be expelled from the University; provided, however, that 
stones, baseball bats, nightsticks, rattan sticks or similar wooden instruments, paper 
cutter, tear gas, scalpels, icepicks and other similar objects capable of causing physical 
injuries shall be deemed dangerous and deadly if the erring person possesses them in 
preparation for or immediately before, during or after an attack, confrontation or rumble. 
F. Any such member or officer who willfully fails to comply with summons by the 
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs or equivalent official in the autonomous University, 
the Student Disciplinary Tribunal, Deans or their representative for the purpose of 
investigation and other proceedings conducted in connection with fraternity, sorority and 
other student organization-related misconduct shall be automatically suspended by the 
Chancellor 
G. Any such member or officer who causes damage to university property or 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  41 
 



property of any private person within the university premises, on the occasion of a 
rumble, hazing, tumultuous affray or any similar disturbance shall be suspended for at 
least one (1) year, provided that, if any death or serious or less serious physical injury is 
caused to another person by reason of, or on the occasion of said destruction of property, 
the erring student shall be expelled from the University; provided further, that if university 
property is damaged, he/she shall be required to repair the damage done at his/her 
expense or to reimburse the University for costs incurred in repairing such damage and 
no clearance shall be issued until such damage is  fully compensated by the respondent. 
H. Any such member or officer of fraternities or sororities who recruits a college first 
year student taking a first undergraduate degree shall be suspended for at least one (1) 
year and the student recruited as well as all officers of the fraternities or sororities 
concerned shall likewise be suspended for a similar period. 
 
The recruitment of two or more college first year students, in any manner, shall be taken 
as evidence of the fraternities or sororities’ policy of recruitment in violation of the 
foregoing provision in which case, all the officers of the fraternities or sororities 
concerned shall be suspended for at least one (1) year. 
 
As used in these rules, the college first years shall refer to students in the first year of 
their undergraduate course as well as any college student who has earned not more 
than 30 units of academic credits in any baccalaureate or certificate program or any non-
degree program of the University; provided that a grade of incomplete in any subject or 
course shall not be construed as a unit earned in the said subject or course. 
 

I.         Any such member or officer who commits any other form of fraternity, sorority and 
other student organization-related misconduct, whether within or outside university 
premises, which affects the good order and welfare of the University or which has a 
negative effect on the discipline, general welfare or the good name of the University, 
shall be suspended for not less than six 
(6) months but not more than one (1) year. 
 
In case of a second offense committed under paragraph C, D, G, H and I above, the 
erring students shall be expelled from the University. 
 
Section 2 
A. In case any misconduct defined in the preceding section is committed by 
two or more members or officers of the fraternities, sororities or student organizations 
and a conspiracy is established, all officers of such fraternities, sororities or student 
organizations participating in that conspiracy shall be expelled from the University. 
 
A conspiracy shall be deemed to exist if concerted action 
and unity of purpose is established. 
 
B. Where the acts prohibited under this rule is committed by a member, 
officer or agent of the fraternities, sororities or student organizations who is not a student 
of or even if a student is not currently enrolled in the University, all officers of said 
fraternities, sororities or student organizations shall be suspended for at least one (1) 
year; provided that, if said acts are committed by bodyguards, domestics or employees 
of a member or officer, such member or officer and all officers of the fraternities, 
sororities or student organizations shall be expelled from the University. 
 
Section 3 
 
Penalties of suspension shall take effect immediately upon the finality of the decision. A 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  42 
 



student under suspension shall not be allowed to enroll, attend classes, take 
examinations, use university facilities or graduate during the effectivity of the 
suspension; provided that, use of university facilities shall be understood to include using 
library facilities, residing in the residence halls or dormitories owned by the University, 
undertaking field work or any other academic requirement, entering any academic 
building, etc.; provided further, that a student under suspension shall not be allowed to 
enroll until his/her suspension shall have been fully served, except when the period of 
his/her suspension expires on the last day for late registration. 
 
The period of suspension shall be counted as part of the academic residency 
requirement of the student, if for any reason the student was able to take an 
examination or submit any academic requirements during the effectivity of suspension, 
such examination or submission shall be considered invalid. 
 
Notice of suspension shall be immediately furnished to the parents and/or guardians of 
the student and all the colleges and units concerned. All concerned faculty members 
shall be immediately notified of the suspension by their respective deans, institute/center 
directors and department chairpersons, as the case may be. 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in these rules shall preclude the disciplining 
authorities from imposing sanctions including but not limited to withdrawal or recognition 
of fraternities, sororities and other student organizations, under existing university and 
college rules and regulations. 
 
IX. GENERAL GUIDELINES  
 

1. Use of OSA LCD/Equipment 
 

a. For use of LCD/equipment, reservation is on a first come first served 
basis. Only recognized student organizations can borrow the equipment. 
(To be verified by the GSS In-charge of Student Organizations) 

 
b. Priority on the use of the LCD/equipment is given to OSA related 

programs, services and activities. 
 

c. Recognized Student Organizations/Student Council may use the 
LCD/equipment upon reservation and approval of request by the OSA 
Coordinator, three (3) days prior to actual day it will be used. 

 
d. A request form for the use of LCD/equipment will be accomplished by the 

borrower signed by the Adviser and approved by the OSA Coordinator. 
The UP ID or any other valid ID shall be deposited & kept with OSA until 
the equipment/LCD is returned. The borrower must sign the logbook for 
easy monitoring. 

 
e. The borrower must see to it that the equipment will be used properly and 

with utmost care. The VGA, power cords and remote control of the LCD 
should be at all times placed inside the bag after use. 

 
f. For any damage of parts, loss of cords, remote control and/or the 

equipment, it is the responsibility of the last person/borrower to replace/or 
pay for the actual damage or loss. 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  43 
 



 
g. The equipment/LCD can be borrowed only during office hours (e.g. 8 a.m. 

to 5 p.m.) free of charge and thus OSA can officially release and receive 
the requested equipment/LCD during such time. 

 
h. The requested equipment/LCD cannot be taken out of the campus neither 

can it be requested by any student organization for overnight use. 
 

i. Each Student Organization may avail of the use of LCD/equipment as 
priority borrower only once (1) a semester. The said student organization 
will be on the waiting list as borrower if it has borrowed the equipment 
more than once to give opportunity for other student organizations to avail 
of the use of equipment/LCD free of charge. 

 
j. The deposited-UP ID or any valid ID will be returned to the borrower once 

the equipment/LCD has been returned, checked and cleared by OSA. 
 
 

2. Use of U.P. Cebu-Tambayans 
          
  

a. The use of the campus tambayans will be from 7:00 AM to 10:00 PM. It 
is for the use of UP Cebu students, faculty, REPS and admin. staff for the 
purpose of holding meetings; group study; projects/ thesis group 
discussions, etc.; 

 
b. Non-UP constituents are also allowed to use the tambayan without any 

exclusivity. However, such a group or person who solely use it for a 
certain event or specific purpose, shall write a letter to the VC 
Admin./Chancellor to be filed at least two (2) days before the activity for 
UP constituents and at least three (3) days for non-UP constituents; 

 
c. Reservations will be on a first come first served basis. During weekdays, 

approval will be at OSA level only but during weekends, approval will be 
VC Admin. level subject to payment of fees especially for non-UP 
constituents/ or activities; 

 
d. Copy of the approved letter / reservation form will be given to OSA, VC 

Admin., and Security Guard / Security Officer. Noncompliance of giving 
the copy of approved letter(s) will mean that person or groups cannot use 
or stay at the tambayans; 

 
e. For school wide activities, tambayan should be indicated in the 

reservation (general request form) as part of facilities for use (esp. 
involving use of electricity) which is subject to payment and prior approval 
by proper school authorities indicated in the GRF; 

 
f. Persons /or groups, officers of organizations who are staying and using 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  44 
 



the tambayans and those who are using it with or without the GRF shall 
still be held accountable and liable for any damage on the structure. The 
cleanliness and orderliness by the persons/organization and regular 
facility check and repair shall be done by CDMO. 

 
g. However, all users of the tambayans (UP or non-UP) have to maintain 

the cleanliness, orderliness and proper use of school facilities according 
to the existing school rules and regulations. In case of any violations on 
these guidelines, due process of investigations shall occur. The offender 
or any person/ group found out to deliberately violating said guidelines 
shall immediately repair and replace any damage done to the structure. 

  
 

3. Posting at Bulletin Boards 
 

a. All materials for posting must bear the stamp approval of the appropriate office 
and the signature of authorized school officials after the approval of a letter of 
request to the Chancellor /or Vice Chancellor for Administration with the 
endorsement and signature from the following person according to the type of 
announcement: 

• Job Ads – GSS In Charge for Job Placement/ Job Fair 
• Statements – GSS In Charge for Student Organizations 
• Event Announcement/Contests/Call for Awards/Conference – GSS In 

Charge for Student Org. 
• Scholarships – GSS In Charge for STS 

 
b. All materials for posting at the bulletin board must bear the name of sponsors, 

title of activity, venue of activity and content of all relevant information; 
 

c. No materials for posting may contain libelous statement(s) or offensively 
coarse or foul language towards any person/ group and the name of the 
school. Libelous statement shall refer to defamatory, scandalous and 
slanderous words; 

 
d. It will be the responsibility of the owners of materials to post or put up their 

announcements/ statements/ ads only at the designated green colored 
bulletin boards/ poster areas and billboard subject to confirmation by CDMO 
or VC Admin.; 

 
e. Materials for posting at bulletin boards must not be larger than A3 or A4 size 

(210mm x 297mm) and not smaller than half size of the bond paper (8 ½ in x 
5.5 in). It shall be posted for a maximum of validity of 15 calendar days. 
Thereafter, said materials will be removed by the officers of the student 
organization/ company staff, Security Guard or CDMO personnel; 

 
f. Materials for posting larger than A4 bond paper size are considered streamer, 

tarpaulin, banners and shall only be posted at the areas assigned for it. Only 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  45 
 



one (1) streamer/tarpaulin per event can be posted for a maximum of 15 
calendar days. Thereafter, said materials will be removed by the officers of 
the student organization/ company staff, Security Guard or CDMO personnel; 

 
g. No posting will be allowed on covered walks, walls, doors, railings, windows, 

rest rooms, trees and light posts or anywhere outside the designated areas 
 

h. Violations regarding the Guidelines for Posting will be as follows: 
 

• First Offense – verbal reprimand to the sponsor or the one making the 
announcement 

• Second Offense – written letter of warning to the sponsor/ persons 
• Third Offense – committee investigation on the violation by the person, 

sponsor or organization. The recommendation of the committee will be final 
and executor 

 
 

4. University Student Council Elections 
  
 
a. Qualifications of Candidates (Art. VI, Sec. 1, Constitution of UP Cebu Student Council) 

1.     One must be a Filipino citizen and bona fide undergraduate student of UP 
Cebu who is currently enrolled at the time of the filing of candidacy supported by 
the certified true copy of the Form 5 (certified by the OUR). 
2.  One must have no failing grade of 5.0 and/or DRP in all subjects during the 
semester immediately preceding the elections (first semester) supported by the 
certified true copy of grades by the Office of University Registrar. *However, in 
the event that one has a grade of 4.0 or INC. it can only be allowed in just one 
subject and more than one conditional failure or incomplete grade disqualifies the 
candidate *(SEB guideline as approved by both parties.) 
3.  One must not have been subjected to disciplinary action involving any act of 
misconduct directly affecting the welfare of the University. 

 
b. Filing of Candidacy 

1.  Filing of Candidacy is open to all qualified undergraduate students (as defined 
in Art. VI, Sec.1, Constitution of UP Cebu Student Council) 
2.     Duly qualified candidates should file their candidacy with the appropriate form 
at the Office of Student Affairs. Final schedule and specific dates of filing of 
candidacy are to be agreed by both parties and approved by the Student Electoral 
Board (SEB).  
3.  The SEB will convene at 6p.m. on the deadline for filing of candidacy to 
confirm the official list of qualified candidates, which will be posted the following 
working day. 
4.  After the deadline for the filing of candidacy, no replacement shall be allowed 
for any candidate. In case there is a withdrawal of candidacy, it shall be made in 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  46 
 



writing to the SEB Chair only on the day before the SEB meets to confirm the 
official list of qualified candidates. 
5.  Only recognized student organization's name may be used as a political party 
by prospective candidates. 

 
c. Campaign Strategies 

1.     Campaign managers and members of the party list directly involved must be 
currently enrolled during the semester. 
2.  The official campaign period will be determined by the SEB. Posters, sample 
ballots, and position papers are allowed as long as distribution of said materials do 
not interfere with the normal routine of classes. Posters/ campaign materials are 
allowed to be posted only at the specifically designated places/ areas (per posting 
guidelines of campaign materials). 
3.    A room to room campaign within the campaign period will be allowed subject 
to approval by the Chancellor from on specified dates. Each party and independent 
candidates are allowed a maximum of 10 minutes only with the proper permission 
from faculty handling the class. 
4.    The candidates are allowed to campaign anywhere inside the campus only 
within the prescribed campaign period and provided that classes are not disrupted 
and disturbed. 
5.     An election bond of Php 300.00 per party or per individual if independent,       
is required. 
          It will be returned after all campaign materials have been removed.  
6.        Students ' grand rally will be held on a specified date by the SEB from 1p.m. 
to 5p.m. with the purpose of presentation by the different candidates and their 
respective platforms. SC shall write a letter of request to the Chancellor endorsed 
by SEB Chairperson in order to request (ACLE) alternative class learning 
exercise/activity. 
7.    Violations of the guidelines regarding campaign strategies, the following 
sanctions will be imposed: 
a. First offense – verbal reprimand to be given by any member of the Student 
Electoral Board 
b. Second offense – written warning to be given by the Student Electoral Board 
c. Third offense – will not be allowed to do room-to-room campaign 
8.   A written complaint should be submitted to the electoral board signed by 3 
witnesses. 

d. Conduct of Elections 
    1.   All undergraduate students of UP Cebu who are officially enrolled for the 

second semester for the Academic Year have the right to vote on the election’s 
day. 

    2.  The election will be held on at a specified date set by the SEB (based on the 
SC constitution) w/no lunch break at the AS Conf. Hall Canvassing will be at the 
AS Conference Hall on the same day. Party poll watchers should be present 
before the ballot boxes will be closed for the start of polling and before ballot 
boxes are opened for canvassing. 

   3.  The voting procedures are as follows: 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  47 
 



a. Make sure your name is found in the official list of students who are 
qualified to vote 
b. Present your UP Form 5 or Invoice or U.P. I.D. or any other valid ID 
(Library/ TLRC) for verification purposes by the Students Electoral Board. 
c. Affix your signature on the control sheet prepared by the Electoral Board 
and the Office of Student Affairs GSS as soon as you receive your official 
ballot. 
d. Accomplish the ballot by shading the circle just before the name of the 
candidate of your choice. For corrections, pls. erase completely and shade 
the new choice. 
e. Affix your thumb mark on the ballot and drop your ballot into the box 
designated for each cluster. Again, affix your signature on the same control 
sheet after casting your vote. 

    4.   Only members of the Student Electoral Board and two (2) official party poll 
watchers are allowed within the designated area of the precinct. 

 
e. Canvassing of Ballots and Election Results 

1. The canvassing of ballots will start at a time determined by the SEB    and shall 
be conducted by the SEB in the presence of two (2) official party poll watchers 
representing each of the political party/ independent candidates. It can also be 
viewed by other UP constituents outside the precinct. 
2. Any unnecessary marks, comments or erasures written on the ballot will nullify 
it. Ballots with no thumb marks will also be invalidated. 
3. Election protests must be officially filed in writing addressed to the Chair, 
Students Electoral Board (SEB) until a specified time the following day after 
the elections. 

  
f. Proclamation of Winners 

After the proclamation of winners, they will have to wait for proper turn over and 
submission of the election reports for review and approval of the Chancellor. 
The Induction to the Office of the University Student Council will be set subject to 
the availability of the Chancellor which shall be the signal of the new term of the 
new set of USC officers for the specified academic/school year. 
  
Note: Students Electoral Board has the sole authority in terms of conduct and 
decisions on the elections which is composed of Chair- Vice Chancellor for 
Academic Affairs; Vice Chair-OSA Coordinator & GSS In Charge of Student Org-
Secretariat & 2 Faculty and 3 Student Reps who are Non-partisan or with no 
political affiliation. 

 
 

5.  Selection of the Tug-ani Editor-in-chief 
 
a. Qualifications of the Tug-ani Editor in Chief 
 

The post of the Editor-in-Chief is open to all undergraduate students of the 
University of the Philippines (UP) Cebu, provided that he or she has no failing 
grade (5.0), conditional failure (4.0) or incomplete grade of the previous 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  48 
 



semester (from date of selections 2nd semester) and of good moral character 
meaning has not been found guilty of any disciplinary charges.  

b. Appointment of the Selection Board/ Committee for Tug-ani EIC 
The Office of the Chancellor shall appoint three (3) faculty representatives and 
one (1) student representative to compose the Tug-ani Editor-in-Chief 
Selection Board, who will finalize the guidelines for the written exam and panel 
interview, which all applicants will be required to undertake and undergo. 

c. Posting of Announcements  
The posting of announcement for Selection of the Editor-in-Chief will be on 
specified date in  March. 
It is open to all undergraduate students of the University of the Philippines (UP) 
Cebu, provided that he or she has no failing, conditional or incomplete grade of 
the previous semester and of good moral character. The deadline for accepting of 
applicants for EIC will be set (as indicated in the Tug-ani Constitution and By-laws 
as endorsed by Chancellor and approved by BOR). 

  
d. Selection Process – Written Exams and Panel Interview 

For the EIC selection process, the written exams will be administered by the 
Office of Student Affairs (OSA) GSS in-charge of Student Organization/Activities 
for four (4) hours. However, written exams will be prepared by the Faculty Chair 
/ or representative in the Selections committee (preferably faculty who has 
experience in student publications and journalism) 2 days before the actual date 
for test administration. Applicants shall encode their exam answers in the computer 
at TLRC to facilitate the checking of article length and the review and checking of 
papers by the selection board. The candidate will indicate only his or her pen 
name in the exam papers. Before the results are released, only the OSA GSS 
will know the real identities behind the pen names. After which, the shortlist of 
candidates will undergo the panel interview by all members of the Selections 
Committee. 

  
Written exam (total: 300 points) 
(a.) News writing (100 pts.) 
(b.) Editorial writing (100 pts.) 
(c.) Feature writing (100 pts.) 
Panel Interview (total: 100 points) 
a.) The candidates should prepare the following and present these during 
the interview: 
-Portfolio containing the updated curriculum vitae, written works 
(journalistic, literary or others), and proof of published works (i.e. student 
publication, newspapers, blogs or other media) 
-Dummy or prototype of the Tug-ani redesigned to reflect the innovations 
and changes he or she is proposing to carry out with his editorial team 
 

 
6.   Use of U.P Cebu facilities 

                         (Fill up the General Request Form / Event Sheet) 
  

a. The use of classrooms for the sole purpose of holding meetings of UP 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  49 
 



recognized student organization, from 8:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. approval at the OSA 
level only. However, if activity is related to class activity which goes beyond 
5:30 p.m. on weekdays and Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, they are 
subject to written approval made by the Dean/Chancellor. 

 
b. Reservations have to be filed at least three (3) working days before the actual 

date of the activity for UP constituents and at least seven (7) working days/ 
one week before the actual date of the activity for non-UP personnel/activities. 
Any request shall only be considered filed upon reaching the proper office for its 
final approval. In any case, unit wide UP Cebu activities will supersede any prior 
reservations; 

 
c. Reservations will be on a first come first served basis. Reservation with CDMO 

can be made in advance, but it can only be considered a valid reservation if 
activity has been approved in writing and reservation form has been duly 
accomplished; In case of conflict, the one who filed late has to request for 
reconsideration from the one who filed earlier. 

 
d. Copy of the signed gen. request form (GRF) will be given to OSA, VC Admin., 

and Head, Security Guard / Security Officer. Maximum of one (1) week is 
allowable for reservations of Conf. Hall, AVR 1 and AVR 2, Union building but 
subject to renewal if activity is beyond one (1) week. Long term reservations are 
not allowed (e.g. 1-3 months from June to August); 

 
e. Activities which will disturb classes and offices shall not be allowed. 

Otherwise, the appropriate UP officials may revoke such permit and halt the 
activity immediately. Eating and drinking inside the Arts & Science Conference 
Halls, AVR 1 & 2, & Performing Arts Hall are also strictly prohibited. 

 
f. The AS Conference Hall, Performing Arts Hall, AVR 1 & 2 cannot be used for 

activity involving children below 1 year old and infants. 
 

g. For income generating activities, sponsoring organization shall pay for the use 
of air con, electricity, and other facilities among others in consultation with 
Accounting Office for computation of rates. 

 
h. Honoraria, & overtime of Technician & Utility personnel rendering services 

after office hours will be paid by the sponsoring organization/office.\GRF will be 
made available in UP website. Flow of signatory: (1) Faculty Adviser/Dean of 
College (2) OSA-for student org/OUR for-classroom use (3) CDMO for all 
spaces, PAH/AVR1, AS-PE & SSC/ Cos for AVR2 (4) Vice Chancellor for 
Admin/or Chancellor for final approval 

 
7.  Local Off-campus Activities 

 
Before the off-campus activity 
A.  In accordance to the CHED Memorandum Order (CMO) No. 63 Series of 2017, UP 
Cebu  requires the faculty/personnel in-charge  and stakeholders to comply with the 
following requirements to the Office of the Chancellor through “Report of Compliance 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  50 
 



Form” (See Appendix Form 1) with necessary attachment one month before the conduct 
of an off campus activity. 
Student Organization Activities must have their compliance checked by the GSS-in 
charge of Student organizations, before it is presented to the OSA Director for 
endorsement to the VCAA and then to Chancellor. 
As for the Class-related activity, compliance is checked by the Department 
Chair/Coordinator before it is presented to the Dean for endorsement to the VCAA and 
then to Chancellor. 
 

REQUIREMENTS  PROOF 
1. Curriculum Requirement - Course Syllabus which 
The curriculum should include reflects the relevance of 
the off-campus activity with requiring an educational tour 
corresponding unit credits and and field trip 
time-allotment whether lecture 
or laboratory hours, specifying 
course title and unit credits 
2. Destination - As much as Appropriate Report 
practicable, the destination of 
off campus activities should be 
near the concerned HEI in 
order minimize cost.  The 
destination and schedule 
should be relevant to subject 
matter.  
3. Consent/Waiver of the Parents’ Consent (See 
Parents or Student's Appendix Form 2) –for 
Guardian  Curricular activities, 

interschool 
competitions/tournaments or 
culture and arts 
performances and 
competition 
 
School Waiver Form (See 
Appendix Form 3) – for 
activities initiated by 
Recognized Student 
Organizations. 

4. Medical Clearance of Medical Clearance of the 
Students students if appropriate (in 

case of strenuous activities) 
duly signed by the HEI or 
government physician 

5. First Aid Kit First Aid Kit 
A complete First Aid Kit should 
be prepared and brought during 
the activity.  

UP Cebu Student Handbook  51 
 



6. Personnel in-charge - The ● List of PIC with 
designated personnel-in- designation 
charge (PIC) must be an ● Relevant certificate on 
employee of the institution and first-aid training 
must have appropriate 
qualifications and experiences 
related to off campus activities. 
When necessary, identify 
overall leader from among the 
PICs.  At least one PIC must 
have appropriate first-aid and 
medical emergency training. 
The ratio of the PIC to students 
must be 1:20. 
7. Fees and Fund Source - Appropriate Report 
The fees to be collected from 
the students must be duly 
approved and disseminated to 
concerned stakeholders. There 
should be a breakdown of fund 
sources and other resources 
properly secured and 
accounted for.  
8. Insurance-  The HEI should Proof of Insurance Provision 
provide insurance (individual or 
group)  provision for students, 
faculty, and other concerned 
stakeholders for the purpose of 
the activity 
9.  Mobility of Students Updated /valid documents  

pertaining to registration, 
insurance  coverage, driver's 
license, assurance of 
roadworthiness, etc.  

10. LGUs/NGOs - The ● Copy of letter sent to LGU;  
PIC/students should duly ● Copy of acknowledgement  
coordinate with appropriate letter from LGUs 
LGUs/NGOs. Whenever 
necessary for the safety and 
convenience of the touring 
party, advance proper 
coordination  with the local 
government units with 
acknowledged letter  from  the 
concerned government agency 
shall be secured before the 
scheduled date of the activity  
11. Activities - Announcement ● Itinerary of Activities 
to students/stakeholders must 
be done at least 1 month 
before the scheduled date of 
activity. The students and 
stakeholders must have a 
briefing to provide the needed 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  52 
 



information and materials 
before the trip.  

12. Emergency  Appropriate Report 
Preparedness Plan - An 
emergency Preparedness Plan 
must be in place   and be given 
to the students and 
stakeholders.  This Emergency 
Plan must contain Emergency 
contact numbers (e.g. nearest 
hospital, police station), and 
steps that would be taken in 
case someone is injured or 
lost. 

A. Certificate of Compliance. After the submission of Report of Compliance, A 
Certificate of Compliance (See Appendix Form 4) duly notarized, certified correct by 
the PIC, recommending approval by the VCAA and duly approved by the Chancellor 
stating that all the requirements have been prepared and duly complied using the 
prescribed template shall be secured by the PIC 
 
 
During the off-campus activity 
 
The following requirements should be submitted to the Dean of the College (for curricular 
activities) or to the Office of Student Affairs (for S.O. activities): 
 

REQUIREMENTS PROOF 
1. Personnel-in charge, identify ● List of personnel or 

overall leader (when necessary) attendance 
with the following tasks: ● List of students and/or 

a. accompany students from  attendance 
the time they assemble for the off 
campus activity up to debriefing  

b. ensure the provision of the 
allowable seating capacity of 
vehicle/s used (No students shall 
be allowed to ride on the roof of 
motor vehicle or on the boarding 
platform)  

c. ensure that the program  of 
activities is properly followed as 
planned or activities can be 
adjusted as the need arises 

 
After the off-campus activity 
 
The following requirements should be submitted to the Dean of the College (for 
curricular activities) or to the Office of Student Affairs (for S.O. activities): 
 

REQUIREMENTS PROOF 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  53 
 



1. Learning journals/ output of students Appropriate 
Report/grades 

2. Assessment report/Evaluation Report Assessment Report by 
faculty including 
breakdown of 
expenses 

3. Expenditure Report Breakdown of 
expenses 

4. Debriefing of concerned faculty to Report on debriefing 
students to be able to assess acquisition of program conducted 
learning 

 
X. TEACHING & LEARNING RESOURCE CENTER (TLRC) 
 
The TLRC is an academic center that provides instructional assistance and enrichment 
programs designed to enable students to meet the demands of a UP education 
especially in the areas of Communication, Science and Mathematics. 
 
Instructional assistance and enrichment are possible in the following forms: 
 
1. Self-tutorial Modules 
 
Modules in Mathematics (Algebra, Trigonometry, Calculus), Communication, Biology, 
Chemistry (Gen. Inorganic Chemistry; Organic Chemistry) and Natural Science (I & II) 
may be availed of at the TLRC during office hours. 
 
Module users have to accomplish the monitoring sheet before every module use. 
Modules for overnight use may be checked out at 4:00 pm and must be promptly 
returned at 8:00 am the next day. A fine of P50/day or a fraction of a day will be imposed 
on the late return of modules used overnight. College and TLRC ID's have to be 
submitted upon checking out of modules. 
 
Lending of modules for overnight use will be suspended during the Final Exams week of 
every semester. 
 
2. Compact Discs (CDs) 
 
CD's in Mathematics, History, Chemistry, Accounting, Language, Health, Natural 
Science, Pre-Algebra, Algebra (I, II), Geometry, History, Literature, Geography, 
Vocabulary, Typing, Trigonometry, Pre-Calculus, Calculus, Statistics, Science 
Encyclopedia (Life Sciences, Chemistry, Physics and Mathematics) are available at the 
TLRC Study Room. Assistance in the use of the CD with the CD ROM and the computer 
may be requested from the TLRC staff anytime during office hours. 
 
3. Computers 
 
Twelve (12) computers are available for student's use. The installed computer programs 
that are available include Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Query, PageMaker, Paintbrush, 
RMiner,Typing Tutor, and SPSS. 
 
The computers are free to use for currently enrolled students.  
 
4. Internet and e-mail 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  54 
 



 
Internet access and e-mail services may be availed of at the TLRC for free during office 
hours, Monday to Friday from 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM. 
 
5. Face-to-face tutorials 
 
Either one-on-one tutorials or group tutorials on all academic courses, computer and 
internet use may be availed at the TLRC by arrangement. Faculty tutors are available 
during their consultation hours. Students interested in being peer tutors have to   enlist 
with the TLRC Coordinator. Semesterly review programs which happen multiple times 
a week prior to examination month are offered by the office  free of  charge. enlist with 
the TLRC Coordinator. 
 
6. Life Skills Development/Guidance Services 
 
In coordination with the Office of Student Affairs (OSA), the TLRC likewise assists 
students adjust to the academic environment and provide avenues for personal growth 
and psychological development. 
 
Copies of the Psychosocial Development modules are also on-hand for individual 
students use during their convenient time. For matters needing urgent action/assistance, 
you may approach the TLRC Coordinator or OSA Coordinator or any of the Guidance 
Services Specialists. 
 
7. Special Skills 
 
Your requests for the use of any TLRC's equipment and facilities for skill development 
must be in writing addressed to the TLRC Coordinator. Reservation papers must be 
accomplished and filed at two days prior to the actual use. Student enrichment programs 
and short seminars are also being offered by the office every semester. Schedules and 
topics are regularly posted at the TLRC Bulletin Board or at the UP Cebu TLRC Website.  

 
XI.UP NAMING MAHAL 
 
Every student is expected to learn and know how to sing the UP-Naming Mahal (see 
next page), which is sung at all university programs and exercises.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UP Cebu Student Handbook  55 
 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UP NAMING MAHAL 

 

UP naming mahal 

Pamantasang hirang 

Ang tinig namin 

Sana’y inyong dinggin 

Malayong lupain 

Amin mang marating 

Di rin magbabago ang damdamin 

Di rin magbabago ang damdamin 

Luntian at pula 

Sagisag magpakailan man 

Ating ipagdiwang 

Bulwagan ng dangal 

Humayo’t itanghal 

Giting at tapang 

Mabuhay ang pag-asa ng bayan 

Mabuhay ang pag-asa ng bayan 

 

 

 UP Cebu Student Handbook  56 



 
 
 
 
 

Officers of Administration 
 

UNIVERSITY OF THE PHILIPPINES SYSTEM 
 

Danilo L. Concepcion 
President 

 
 Ma. Cynthia Rose B. Bautista 

Vice President for Academic Affairs 
 

Nestor G. Yunque 
Vice President for Administration 

 
Joselito G. Florendo 

Vice President for Planning and Finance 
 

Elvira A. Zamora 
Vice President for Development 

 
Elena E. Pernia 

Vice President for Public Affairs 
 

Hector Danny D. Uy 
Vice President for Legal Affairs 

 
Roberto M.J. Lara 

Secretary of the University and the Board of Regents 
 
 

 UP Cebu Student Handbook  57 



Officers of Administration 
 

UNIVERSITY OF THE PHILIPPINES CEBU 
 

Liza D. Corro 
Chancellor 

 
Ritchelita P. Galapate 

Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs 
 

Weena  Jade S. Gera 
Vice Chancellor for Administration 

 
May Christina G. Bugash 

University Registrar 
 

Palmy P. Tudtud 
Dean, College of Communication Art and Design 

 
Tiffany G. Tan 

Dean, School of Management 
 

 Jonnifer R. Sinogaya 
Dean, College of Science 

 
Yuleta R.Orillo 

Officer in-charge, College of Social Sciences 
 

Ellen Grace M. Funesto 
Director, Office of Student Affairs 

 
 
 
UNIVERSITY OF THE PHILIPPINES CEBU
Citizen’s Charter Handbook 2024



UNIVERSITY OF THE PHILIPPINES CEBU
CITIZEN’S CHARTER HANDBOOK

Prepared by

Human Resource Development Office (HRDO)
hrdo.upcebu@up.edu.ph
(032) 232 8187 (loc. 319)

Public Information Office (PIO)
pio.upcebu@up.edu.ph
(032) 232 8187 (loc. 313)

Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administration (OVCA)
ovca.upcebu@up.edu.ph
(032) 232 8187 (loc. 123)

Gorordo Avenue, Lahug,
Cebu City, Cebu 6000
www.upcebu.edu.ph

(2024 4th EDITION)



I. Mandate
As the national university, a public and secular institution of higher learning, and a community of scholars dedicated to the
search for truth and knowledge as well as the development of future leaders, the University of the Philippines shall perform its
unique and distinctive leadership in higher education and development.

The University shall:

● Lead in setting academic standards and initiating innovations in teaching, research, and faculty development in philosophy,
the arts and humanities, the social sciences, engineering, natural sciences, mathematics, and technology; and maintain
centers of excellence in these disciplines and professions.

● Serve as a graduate university by providing advanced studies and specialization for scholars, scientists, writers, artists, and
professionals especially those who serve on the faculty of state and private colleges and universities.

● Serve as a research university in various fields of expertise and specialization by conducting basic and applied research,
promoting research and development, and contributing to the dissemination and application of knowledge.

● Lead as a public service university by providing various forms of community, public and volunteer service, as well as
scholarly and technical assistance to the government, the private sector, and civil society while maintaining its standards of
excellence.

● Protect and promote the professional and economic rights and welfare of its academic and non-academic personnel.

● Provide opportunities for training and learning in leadership, responsible citizenship, and the development of democratic
values, institutions, and practice through academic and non-academic programs, including sports and enhancement of
nationalism and national identity.

● Serve as a regional and global university in cooperation with international and scientific unions, networks of universities,
scholarly and professional associations in the Asia Pacific Region and around the world.



● Provide democratic governance based on collegiality, representation, accountability, transparency, and active participation
of its constituents; and promote the holding of meetings and fora for students, faculty, research, extension, and professional
staff (REPS), administrative staff, and alumni to discuss non-academic issues affecting the University.

II. Vision
A lead university in pioneering research, creative design, ICT-driven innovation, responsible governance, and community
service in Central Visayas and the global society.

III. Mission
UP Cebu promotes scientific, socio-economic, cultural, and environmental progress in Central Visayas, in the nation and
the world through creative instruction, research, intellectual productivity, and public service. The university:

● Offers accessible quality graduate, undergraduate, and continuing education that will produce innovative, critical,
nationalist, ethical, gender-sensitive, and socially responsible graduates who demonstrate high levels of academic
pursuit;

● Conducts pioneering research, and develops novel and creative technologies through transdisciplinary collaboration;
● Applies products of knowledge generation, dissemination, and intellectual productivity to improve social welfare; and
● Ensures administrative efficiency in the delivery of excellent, responsible service in support of learning, research,

intellectual productivity, and public service.

IV. Service Pledge
We, the University of the Philippines Cebu (UPC) officials, faculty, REPS, and administrative employees, commit to
extend to our clientele and stakeholders the quality service anchored on the following values and principles:

1. Prompt and expeditious service
We ensure that the needs of our stakeholders, who include the students, professionals, and the community, are addressed
with efficiency, quality, and promptness. We deliver teaching, research, and extension work within the expected duration,
and expedite services to maximize output and respond to other immediate needs and other equally important obligations.

2. Commitment
We are committed to delivering academic services to our stakeholders with a high sense of quality, especially in the fields
of computer science, education, fine arts, industrial design, management, communication, mathematics, natural sciences,



and social sciences. We strive to be the regional center for cultural, social, and human development, and to deliver
programs that improve our stakeholders’ quality of living.

3. Just and Fair
We endeavor to practice equitable and ethical decision-making, upholding basic human and civil rights for the greater good,
in the delivery of our academic services and scholarly learning activities, in the conduct of research and dissemination of
research outputs, and in serving and working with our communities and partners in the alleviation of the quality of life.

4. Transparency
We abide by the principle of transparency, carrying out the basic regulatory and mandated requirements, respecting the
standards of check and balance, ensuring a balance between maintaining confidentiality whenever needed and upholding
openness where accountabilities are concerned for the greater good and advantage of the university and the country.

5. Efficiency
We strive to ensure that all our delivery of academic services, research and dissemination community extension, and all
other academic support services are done within the expected and sound utilization of resources and equipment. We
endeavor and observe zero waste and redundancy in pursuing the best possible alternative and innovative methods in
optimizing the delivery of all services.



V. LIST OF SERVICES

OFFICE OF THE CHANCELLOR (OC) ……………………………………………………………………………………………. 9

TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (TTBDO) …………………………………………50

LEGAL OFFICE ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 66

PUBLIC INFORMATION OFFICE (PIO) …………………………………………………………………………………………… 77

BUDGET OFFICE ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 85

UP CEBU UGNAYAN NG PAHINUNGÓD OFFICE ……………………………………………………………………………… 91

OFFICE OF THE VICE CHANCELLOR FOR ACADEMIC AFFAIRS (OVCAA) ………………………………………………108

OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL LINKAGES (OIL) ……………………………………………………………………………….. 129

OFFICE OF THE UNIVERSITY REGISTRAR (OUR)……………………………………………………………………………. 138

OFFICE OF STUDENT AFFAIRS (OSA) …………………………………………………………………………………………. 171

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY …………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 216

CENTRAL VISAYAS STUDIES CENTER (CVSC) ………………………………………………………………………………. 249

UP CEBU OFFICE OF CONTINUING EDUCATION AND PADAYON (OCEP)………………………………………………. 265

GENDER AND DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (GAD)……………………………………………………………………………….. 270

TEACHING AND LEARNING RESOURCE CENTER (TLRC)………………………………………………………………….. 282

NATIONAL SERVICE TRAINING PROGRAM (NSTP)…………………………………………………………………………… 288



OFFICE OF THE VICE CHANCELLOR FOR ADMINISTRATION (OVCA)…………………………………………………….. 296

ACCOUNTING OFFICE……………………………………………………………………………………………..……………….. 323

CASH OFFICE……………………………………………………………………….………..………………………………………. 376

CAMPUS MAINTENANCE OFFICE (CMO)……………………………………………………………………………………….. 404

HEALTH SERVICES UNIT (HSU)…………………………………………………,……………………………………………….. 422

HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)…………………….…………………………………………………. 451

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY CENTER (ITC)………………………………………………………………………………….. 487

OFFICE OF THE CAMPUS ARCHITECT (OCA)………………………………………………………………………………….. 496

SAFETY AND SECURITY UNIT (SSU)……………………………………………………………………………………………... 508

SUPPLY PROPERTY MANAGEMENT OFFICE (SPMO)………………………………………………………………………… 521

COLLEGE OF COMMUNICATION, ART, AND DESIGN (CCAD)……………………………………………………………….. 542

COLLEGE OF SCIENCE (CS)…………………………………………………………………………………..……………….….. 587

COLLEGE OF SOCIAL SCIENCES (CSS)……………….……………….……………….……………….……………………… 618

MASTER OF EDUCATION PROGRAM (M.Ed. Program)……………….……………….……………….……………………... 659

UP CEBU HIGH SCHOOL PROGRAM……………….……………….……………….……………….……………….…………. 670



SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT (SOM)……………….……………….………………………………….……………….…………. 674

OFFICE OF THE COLLEGE SECRETARY (OCS)……………….……………….………………………………….…………… 736

GUESTHOUSE AND DORMITORY……………….……………….……………….……………….………………………………. 778



 

OFFICE OF THE CHANCELLOR (OC) 
 
EXTERNAL SERVICES 
 

1. Approval of request for collaboration / coordination / representations with other government agencies 
Process on request for collaboration with other government agencies 
 
Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 
Classification: Complex 
Type of Transaction: G2G - Government to Government 
Who may avail: External clients 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
      Letter/request  Concerned requesting agency 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. The requesting agency 1. Receives the request 1 Day 

Office Staff 
sends a letter to the  

Office of the Chancellor 
Chancellor. 
 2. Reviews the request and assigns a point 5 Days 

person/representative to attend/comment or 
None Chancellor 

endorse 
Office of the Chancellor 

 
3. The Chancellor acts on the request. 

2. Receives signed copy 4. Releases the signed copy 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

 TOTAL None 7 Days  
 

9



 

 
2. Approval on request for attendance to CHED SUC evaluations 
Process on attending to CHED SUC evaluations 
 
Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 
Classification: Complex 
Type of Transaction: G2G - Government to Government 
Who may avail:  External clients from CHED 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS       WHERE TO SECURE 
      Letter/Request  concerned requesting agency 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. CHED sends a notice of 1.  Receives the request 1 Day 

Office Staff 
meeting/appointment / invitation to 

Office of the Chancellor 
UP Cebu. 
 2. The Chancellor reviews and None 5 Days Chancellor 

acts on the request. Office of the Chancellor 
2. Receives signed copy 3. Releases the signed copy 1 Day Office Staff 

Office of the Chancellor 
TOTAL None  7 Days  

 
 

10



 

 
3. Approval of requests for collaborations, partnerships (with contracts, TOR, MOA/MOUs) 

Process on requesting approval for collaborations, partnerships (with contracts, TOR, MOA/MOUs) 
 
Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 
Classification: Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction: G2G - Government to Government 
Who may avail:  Administrators of concerned agencies 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS           WHERE TO SECURE 
Letter request from other agencies       concerned requesting agency 

PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID 

TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. The concerned agency 1.Receives the request None 1 Day 
writes a letter to the  Office Staff 
Chancellor with attached Office of the Chancellor 
contract/TOR/MOA/MOU. 
 2.The Chancellor, forwards and  18 Days 

requests Legal Office for clearance 
and endorsement of VCA/VCAA/OIL 

Chancellor 
Coordinator. 

Office of the Chancellor 
 
3. The Chancellor reviews and acts 
on the request. 

2. Receives signed copy 4. Releases the signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

 TOTAL None 20 Days  
 
Note:  The signed and notarized agreements for academic cooperation are sent to UP System for Board of Regents for confirmation 
(with necessary attachments: legal clearance, activity implementation plan and certification of no special budgetary requirements). 
 
 

11



 

 
4. Approval of request from Contractors for: Construction of Buildings, Variation Order, Approval of BOQ, 

and Site Instruction (SI), Time Extension 
Process on requesting approval for Construction of Buildings, Variation Order, Approval of BOQ, Site Instruction, (SI), Time Extension 
and Material Submittal Sample from Contractors 
 
Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 
Classification: Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction: G2B, G2C 
Who may avail:  Contractors 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS                 WHERE TO SECURE 
Letter request with OCA’s review    and endorsement                           OCA 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1.The Contractor writes a letter and 1. Receives the request None 1 Day 
gets endorsement from the  
Office of the Campus Architect Office Staff 
(OCA) and the VCA.  OCA or the Office of the Chancellor 
OVCA endorses it to the 
Chancellor’s Office. 
 2. The Chancellor reviews, and if  18 Days 

needed, calls upon a meeting with 
Chancellor 

OCA, BAC and End-user 
Office of the Chancellor 

 
3. The Chancellor acts on the request. 

2. Receives signed copy 4. Releases the signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

 TOTAL None 20 Days  

12



 

5. Approval of request from contractors - Payment of Progress Billings 
Process of request for payment on progress billings 
 
Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 
Classification: Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction: G2B 
Who may avail: Contractors 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS                WHERE TO SECURE 
Letter and Progress Billing Form                            OCA 

FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

BE PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1.    The Contractor submits the billing 1. Receives the request None 1 Day 
to Office of the Campus Architect 
(OCA) for their action, OCA then 

Office Staff 
endorses the request to the OVCA. 

Office of the Chancellor 
 
2.    The OVCA endorses it to the 
Chancellor’s Office.  
 2. The Chancellor reviews, and if  18 Days 

needed, consults OCA and Accounting, 
on the computation of billing; punch Chancellor 
lists, liquidated damages, etc. Office of the Chancellor 
 
3. The Chancellor acts on the request. 

3. Receives signed copy 4. Releases signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

 TOTAL None 20 Days  
 

13



 

 
6. Submission and Compliance of Reports/Replies to OMB, COA, CHED and other Agencies 
Process of submitting compliance of reports/replies to OMB, COA, CHED and other agencies 
 
Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 
Classification: Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction: G2G - Government to Government 
Who may avail:  Administrators of concerned agencies 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS              WHERE TO SECURE 
Memo from COA/other Agencies            concerned requesting agency 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. OMB/COA/ CHED and 1. Receives the request, and upon None The deadline 
other agencies send a Chancellor’s preliminary action, routes to varies per 
memo/letter for report concerned office for compliance agency Office Staff 
compliance. 2. Concerned Office prepares the required (24 Hours/ 3 Office of the Chancellor 

report, and VCA endorses the report to Days/ 7Days to 
the Chancellor 3 Months). 

 3. The Chancellor reviews and approves   Chancellor 
for its release to concerned agency. Office of the Chancellor 

2. Receives signed copy 4. Releases the signed copy None  Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

 TOTAL None 3 Months  

14



 

INTERNAL SERVICES   
 

1. Approval of Requests of the Colleges for Authority to Hire, Appointment of new faculty, Renewal of 
Appointment, Tenure, Waiver of Tenure Rule 

Process of requesting for authority to hire, appointment of new faculty, renewal of appointment, tenure, waiver of tenure rule 
 
Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 
Classification: Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction: G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail: Colleges 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS              WHERE TO SECURE 
           HRDO, Office of the Dean 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. The HRDO as the 1. Receives and reviews the summary 1 Day 

Secretariat of the APFC, of actions, endorsements, and 
forwards the request supporting documents Office Staff 
complete with attachments Office of the Chancellor 
to the Office of the None 
Chancellor. 

 2. The Chancellor acts on the request. 18 Days Chancellor 
Office of the Chancellor 

2. Receives the documents 3. Releases the signed copy 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 20 Days  

15



 

 
2. Endorsement of Requests for Fellowships, FRASDP and Study Leave (new and renewal), Sabbatical 

Leave, Sick Leave of not less than 5 months or 1 semester, Foreign Travels  
Process of requesting approval for fellowship, FRASDP, study leave, sabbatical, sick leave of not less than 5 months or 1 semester, 
foreign travels 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor  

Classification: Highly Technical 

Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail: Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

                   HRDO 

FEES TO BE 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID 

1. The HRDO as the 1. Receives and reviews Office Staff 
1 Day 

Secretariat of the APFC, the request Office of the Chancellor 
forwards the request to the 
Office, with proper 2. The Chancellor acts on Chancellor 

endorsements. the request.  None 13 Days 
Office of the Chancellor 

2. Receives signed copy 3. Releases the signed Office Staff 
1 Day 

copy Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 15 Days  

16



 

3. Endorsement of request to avail UP System Research Dissemination Grant, International Publication 
Award, etc.  

Process of requesting for endorsement of RDG, IPA for action of the Chancellor 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor  

Classification: Complex 

Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail: Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

                    CVSC 

FEES TO BE 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID 

1. The OVCAA or the 1. Receives and reviews None 1 Day 
applicant/proponent submits the request Office Staff 

the request to the Office with Office of the Chancellor 

proper endorsements thru 
channels.  2. The Chancellor acts on  5 Days 

the request. Chancellor 
Office of the Chancellor 

2. Receives signed copy 3. Releases signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 7 Days  

17



 

 
4. Approval of Requests to Avail of Faculty Development Fund (FDF) 
Process of requesting to avail of the FDF 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Simple 

Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail: Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

                         CVSC, OVPAA 

FEES TO BE 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID 

1. The OVCAA submits the 1. Receives and reviews None 1 Day 
proponent’s request to the the request  Office Staff 

Office, with its action of Office of the Chancellor 

endorsement or non-
endorsement.  2. The Chancellor acts  1 Day 

on the request.  
Chancellor 

Office of the Chancellor 

2. Receives signed copy 3. Releases the signed None 1 Day Office Staff 
copy Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 3 Days  

18



 

5. Approval of Submitted API Proposals 
Process of submitting Academic Program Improvement proposals   
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Complex to Highly Technical  

Type of Transaction: G2C - Government to Citizen 

Who may avail:  Faculty of the different programs of the Colleges 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

       Proposals from different colleges                  College/OVCAA 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 

1. College/ Department / 1. Receives the request None 1 Day Office Staff 
Programs/Offices Office of the Chancellor 
prepares the proposal 

2. The Chancellor calls for a 
using prescribed forms  

meeting with the VCAA and 
 

Deans to review and prioritize 
Sends to OVCAA for 

the proposals and finalize for 
endorsement and collation. 

submission Chancellor 
 13 Days 

3. The Chancellor approves the Office of the Chancellor 
submission and release of the 
proposals, subject to revisions 
based on comments during the 
meeting for prioritization. 

2. Receives signed copy 4. Releases the signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 15 Days  

19



 

6. Approval of Requests for Realignment of Approved Line Item Budget for API Activities  
Process of requesting realignment of approved LIB for API activities 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Simple 

Type of Transaction: G2G – Government to Government 

Who may avail: Colleges, Departments, Programs 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

                Office of the Dean 

FEES TO BE 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID 

1. The OVCAA endorses the 1. Receives and reviews None 1 Day 
request to the Office.  the request Office Staff 

Office of the Chancellor 

2. The Chancellor acts on  1 Day 
the request.  Chancellor 

Office of the Chancellor 

2. Receives signed copy 3. Releases the signed None 1 Day Office Staff 
copy Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 3 Days  

 

20



 

 
7. Approval of Budget Proposals (project-based or annual budget plans) 

Process of requesting budget proposals (project-based or annual budget plans)   
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Complex 

Type of Transaction: G2G – Government to Government 

Who may avail: Colleges, Departments, Programs 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

                Budget Office/Respective offices  

FEES TO BE 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID 

1. The college/s and other 1. Receives and reviews the None 1 Day 
concerned offices submit the request 

Office Staff 
budget proposal for approval 

Office of the Chancellor 
of the Chancellor. 

2. The Chancellor, in  5 Days 
Chancellor 

consultation with the Budget 
Office of the Chancellor 

Office, acts on the request.  

2. Receives signed copy 3. Releases the signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 7 Days  

 

21



 

 
8. Actions of Students’ Appeal for re-admissions and other actions on students’ status academic 

status/standing  
Process of requesting for student’s appeal for re-admissions and other actions on student’s status academic status/standing 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Complex 

Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail: Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

  

FEES TO BE 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID 

1. The student seeks 1. Receives and reviews the None 1 Day Office Staff 
endorsements, request  Office of the Chancellor 
recommendations, notations 
through channels, then submits 2. The Chancellor acts on  5 Days 

Chancellor 
the request to the Office of the the request. 

Office of the Chancellor 
Chancellor.  

2. Receives signed copy 3. Releases the signed None 1 Day Office Staff 
copy Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 7 Days  

 
 

22



 

 
9. Endorsement of Requests for Alternative Class Learning Experience (ACLE)  

Process of requesting for Alternative Class Learning Experience (ACLE) 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Simple 

Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail: Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

  

FEES TO BE 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID 

1. The OVCAA or the 1. Receives and reviews the None 1 Day Office Staff 
concerned student/s request    Office of the Chancellor 
submits the request to the   
Office of the Chancellor. 2. The Chancellor acts on  1 Day Chancellor 

the request. Office of the Chancellor 

2. Receives signed copy 3. Releases the signed None 1 Day Office Staff 
copy Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 3 Days  

 

23



 

 
10. Approval of requests for extension of enrollment 
 Process of requesting for endorsement of extension of enrollment 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor  

Classification: Simple 

Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail: Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

  

FEES TO BE 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID 

1. The OVCAA or the 1. Receives and reviews the None 1 Day Office Staff 
concerned student/s request Office of the Chancellor 
submits the request to the 
Office.  2. The Chancellor acts on the  1 Day 

Chancellor 
request.  

Office of the Chancellor 

2. Receives signed copy 3. Releases the signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 3 Days  

 
 
 

24



 

 
11. Action on Application for Student Loan Board (SLB) during enrollment 

 Process of SLB loan application during enrollment 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor  

Classification: Simple 

Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail: Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Letter endorsed by OSA Director  Accounting  
SLB Application Form 
Photocopy of ID of the Borrower/Student with co-maker 

FEES TO BE 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID 

1. The student /borrower 1. Receives, reviews the request None 1 Day 
Office Staff 

submits to the Office a letter and checks completeness of the 
Office of the Chancellor 

justifying the reason for SLB form and attachments 
application (80 to 99% of the 
tuition to be loaned), together 2. The Chancellor acts on the  1 Day 

with duly-filled out SLB form request.  
Chancellor 

with attached photocopy of Office of the Chancellor 
borrower’s and co-maker’s 
ID. 

2. Receives signed copy 3. Releases the signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 3 Days  

25



 

12. Approval of Applications for MOVE UP/COOPERATE 
 Process of requesting approval of applications for MOVE UP/COOPERATE  
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor  

Classification: Complex 

Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail: Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

                        OVPAA, OIL 

FEES TO BE 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID 

1.Submit required documents 1. Receives and reviews None 1 Day 
Office Staff 

already endorsed by OIL applications with 
Office of the Chancellor 

Coordinator and the VCAA. attachments 

2. The Chancellor acts on  5 Days Chancellor 
the request.  Office of the Chancellor 

2. Receives signed copy 3. Releases the signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 7 Days  

 

26



 

 
13. Approval of application to avail of the Basic Extension Fund (BEF) 

Process of sending application for the Basic Extension Fund (BEF)   
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Simple 

Type of Transaction: G2C - Government to Citizen 

Who may avail:  Faculty of the different Colleges 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Letter and contract/grant          OCEP/Ugnayan ng Pahinungod 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 

1. The OVCAA or the proponent 1. Receives the request None 1 Day Office Staff 
submits the request with proper Office of the Chancellor 
endorsements and the BEF contract. 

2. The Chancellor acts on  1 Day Chancellor 
the request.  Office of the Chancellor 

2. Receives signed copy 3. Releases the signed None 1 Day Office Staff 
copy Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 3 Days   

 

27



 

 
14. Approval of candidates for employment 
Process of reviewing and approving the results of the candidates for employment 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Highly Technical  

Type of Transaction: G2C - Government to Citizen 

Who may avail:  Administrators of concerned office/college  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

letter/request, justification for hiring   requesting office or thru HRDO 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 

1. The HRDO/OVCA forwards to 1. Receives the documents None 1 Day 
Office Staff 

the Office of the Chancellor the 2. Reviews the endorsement of the 
Office of the Chancellor 

Endorsement of the CUHRMPSB and its attachments  
CUHRMPSB, screening results 
and candidates’ documents duly 3. The Chancellor, before making a None 18 Days 

signed by the VCA as the Chair final decision, conducts personal 

of the CUHRMPSB. interviews to the top3 Chancellor 
candidates. Thereafter, the Office of the Chancellor 
Chancellor signs on the 
documents.  

2. Receives signed copy 4. Releases the signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 20 Days   

 

28



 

 
15. Approval of Application for privilege to study at reduced fees 

Process of requesting approval for application to study at reduced fees 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Simple 

Type of Transaction: G2C - Government to Citizen 

Who may avail:  All UP Cebu Employees 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

                     General Forms                Accounting Office  

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 

1. The concerned employee writes a 1. Receives the documents None 1 Day 
letter with attached grades. and checks its completeness 
 Office Staff 
 Office of the Chancellor 
2. Gets endorsements through 
channels. 

2. The Chancellor acts on the Chancellor 
  1 Day 

request. Office of the Chancellor 

3. Receives signed copy 3. Releases the signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 3 Days   

 

29



 

 
16. Approval of Application for Limited Practice of Profession (LPP) 
Process of requesting approval of application for Limited Practice of Profession 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Simple 

Type of Transaction: G2C - Government to Citizen 

Who may avail:  All UP Cebu Employees 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

                     General Forms                Accounting Office  

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 

1. The concerned employee 1. Receives the documents None 1 Day 
writes a letter and gets and checks its Office Staff 
endorsements through completeness Office of the Chancellor 
channels. 

2. The Chancellor approves / Chancellor 
  1 Day 

signs on the form. Office of the Chancellor 

2. Receives signed copy 3. Releases the signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 3 Days   

 

30



 

 
17. Approval of Enhanced Hospitalization Programme ( eHOPE) for the Faculty, REPS and 

Administrative Staff 
Process of requesting approval for eHOPE benefit program 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Simple 

Type of Transaction: G2C - Government to Citizen 

Who may avail:  All UP Cebu Employees 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

                     General Forms                Accounting Office  

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 

1. The concerned employee fills 1. Receives the None 1 Day 
out the eHOPE form with documents and checks 

Office Staff 
corresponding attachments. its completeness 

Office of the Chancellor 
2. Gets endorsements through 

channels. 

2. The Chancellor 
Chancellor 

 approves / signs on the  1 Day 
Office of the Chancellor 

form. 

3. Receives signed copy 3. Releases the signed None 1 Day Office Staff 
copy Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 3 Days   

 

31



 

 
18. Approval of notice of appointments, an oath of office (administrative and academic) 
Process of requesting for notice of appointments, an oath of office (administrative and academic)    
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Simple to Complex  

Type of Transaction: G2C - Government to Citizen 

Who may avail:  Administrators of concerned office/college  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

        Notice of Appointment                              HRDO 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 

1. The HRDO prepares the necessary 1. Receives the forms and None 1 Day 
forms, NOA, Basic Papers, etc. of the reviews the attachments Office Staff 

personnel to be appointed, and routes for Office of the Chancellor 

signature through channels (VCA signs/ 
countersigns). 2. The Chancellor acts on the  5 Days 
 request.  Chancellor 
All signed copies will be sent back to the Office of the Chancellor 
HRDO upon signed approval.   

2. Receives signed copy 3. Releases the signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

 TOTAL None 7 Days   

 NOA (in HR) - Notice of Appointment  

32



 

 
19. Approval of requests for ALCs, RLCs, SLCs, CWLCs, RDGs and Staff/REPS Development 

Process on requesting approval for ALCs, RLCs, SLCs, CWLCs, RDGs and Staff/REPS Development   
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Complex to Highly Technical  

Type of Transaction: G2C - Government to Citizen 

Who may avail: Qualified faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

      Letter request and endorsements                                College  

FEES TO BE 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID 

1. The College/OVCAA 1. Receives the request None 1 Day 
routes the request to secure 2. Reviews the endorsements 

Office Staff 
proper endorsements, and attachments (action of the 

Office of the Chancellor 
through channels, for ALCs/ CUAcPFC/CUHRMPSB/REPS 
RLCs/ SLC’s and CWLCs Committee 
more than 3 units. 

3. The Chancellor acts on the  18 Days Chancellor 
request. Office of the Chancellor 

2. Receives signed copy 4. Releases the signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

 TOTAL None 20 Days   

ALC-Administrative Load Credit, RLC -Research Load Credit, SLC -Study Load Credit, CWLC- Creative Work Load Credit 
RDG - Research Dissemination Grant 
  
 

33



 

 
20. Approval of Forms 67A, 67B, 67C, and Disbursement Voucher for the payment of overload honoraria 

of faculty 
Process for filing Forms 67A, 67B, 67C, and Disbursement Voucher for the payment of overload honoraria of faculty   
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Complex to Highly Technical  

Type of Transaction: G2C - Government to Citizen 

Who may avail:  Faculty  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

        Template forms (67A, 67B,67C)                         College  

FEES TO BE 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID 

1. The OVCAA endorses to 1. Receives the request None 1 Day Office Staff 
the Office of the Chancellor Office of the Chancellor 
for approval of the release of 

2. Reviews, if needed, consults  5 Days 
payment of overload 

the VCAA for assistance on the 
honoraria. 

final review of the forms, 
computations of overload Chancellor 
honoraria Office of the Chancellor 
 
3. The Chancellor acts on the 
endorsement. 

2. Receives signed copy 4. Releases the signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 7 Days   

 

34



 

 
21. Approval of Request for Application for Leave (more than 10 days leave) 

Process for requesting Application for Leave (more than 10 days leave) 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Complex to Highly Technical 

Type of Transaction: G2C - Government to Citizen 

Who may avail:  All UP Cebu Employees 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Letter and Application for Leave   Application forms are available at HRDO 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 

1. Employee accomplishes 1. Receives the request None 1Day 
application form and routes 2. Reviews the request and checks the 
for endorsement through endorsing committee’s action, for leave Office Staff 
channels. application of at least 30 days, should be Office of the Chancellor 

sent to CUHRMPSB/ CUAcPFC for 
deliberation and endorsement 

3. The Chancellor acts on the  18 Days Chancellor 
endorsement. Office of the Chancellor 

2. Receives signed copy 4. Releases the signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

 TOTAL None 20 Days   

CUHRMPSB - Constituent Unit Human Resource Merit Promotion and Selection Board 
 
 

35



 

 
22. Approval of Authority to Travel Abroad (Official) 
 Process for requesting authority to travel abroad (official) 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Simple 

Type of Transaction: G2C - Government to Citizen 

Who may avail:  Faculty and Non-teaching Staff or Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Letter of Request and HRDO Form 9                       HRDO 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 

1. Faculty / staff / student 1. Receives the request None 1 Day 
writes a letter.  2. Checks the completeness of the Office Staff 

2. Gets endorsement through request, reviews, and endorses Office of the Chancellor 
channels.  for the Chancellor’s action 

3. The Chancellor approves on the  1 Day Chancellor 
UIS-printed travel authority. Office of the Chancellor 

3. Receives signed copy 4. Releases the signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

 TOTAL None 3 Days   

 
 

36



 

 
23. Approval of Authority to Travel Abroad (Personal)  

Process of requesting for authority to travel abroad (personal) 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Simple 

Type of Transaction: G2C - Government to Citizen 

Who may avail:  Faculty and Non-teaching Staff   

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

      Letter request with leave form                      HRDO 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 

1. The faculty/staff writes a letter.  1. Receives the request None 1 Day 
2. Gets endorsement through 2. Reviews and endorses for the Office Staff 
channels (Dean/VCs/Office action of the Chancellor Office of the Chancellor 
Head)  

3. The Chancellor approves the  1 Day Chancellor 
travel request. Office of the Chancellor 

3. Receives signed copy 4. Releases the signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

 TOTAL None 3 Days   

 
 

37



 

 
24. Approval of Equipment Grant 
Process of requesting approval for equipment grant 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Complex 

Type of Transaction: G2C - Government to Citizen 

Who may avail:  All UP Cebu Employees 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

                     General Forms                N/A 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 

1. The concerned employee writes a 1. Receives the document/ None 1 Day 
Office Staff 

request to the Chancellor, with request 
Office of the Chancellor 

endorsements through channels. 

2. Once approved, the employee 2. The Chancellor acts on  5 Days 
coordinates with the SPMO for the request. Chancellor 
the retrieval/procurement of Office of the Chancellor 
equipment grant. 

3. Receives signed copy 3. Releases the signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

 TOTAL None 7 Days   

 

38



 

 
25. Approval of Payroll, Disbursement Vouchers (500,000 and above) 

Process of requesting approval for payroll, disbursement vouchers and signing of checks 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Simple 

Type of Transaction: G2C - Government to Citizen 

Who may avail:  All UP Cebu Employees 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

                     General Forms                Accounting Office  

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 

1. Accounting Office prepares 1. Receives the documents and None 1 Day 
monthly payroll with checks its completeness/ 
corresponding OBR and DV. correctness of figures Office Staff 

 Office of the Chancellor 
2. Cash Office prepares the 

Check. 

2. The Chancellor approves / Chancellor 
  1Day 

signs on payroll / DV/ checks. Office of the Chancellor 

3. Receives signed copy 3. Releases the signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

 TOTAL None 3 Days   

 

39



 

Approval of PR, PO, RMP, BAC Res., DV of all procurements over 500K ABC 
Process of requesting approval for PR, PO, RMP, BAC Res., DV of all procurements over 500K ABC 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Simple 

Type of Transaction: G2G - Government to Government 

Who may avail:  Government Entity, Suppliers and Contractors 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

              All procurement forms                           SPMO 

PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID 

TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Receives the documents  
 

1. End users submit PRs and 2. Reviews the documents and Office Staff 
corresponding forms to SPMO, None 1 Day 

the completeness of its Office of the Chancellor 
then the SPMO performs the attachments, correctness of 
procurement process up to the entries 
issuance of a notice of award.  

3. The Chancellor acts on the Chancellor 
 1 Day 

request.  Office of the Chancellor 

2. Receives signed copy 4. Releases the signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

 TOTAL None 3 Days   

PR-Purchase Request, PO- Purchase Order, RMP -Recommendation for Mode of Procurement, BAC Res-Bids and Awards Committee 
Resolution  
 

40



 

 
26. Approval of project contracts, agreements, TBI lease agreements, etc.  

Process of request for approval on project contracts, agreements, TBI lease agreements, etc. 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Complex  

Type of Transaction: G2G - Government to Government 

Who may avail:  Government Entity, non-UP contractuals, TBI locators 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

              All procurement forms                           Legal/HRDO/TTBDO 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 

1. End users / Office 1. Receives the documents 
concerned facilitates the  
submission of 2. Reviews the documents and Office Staff 

None 1 Days 
contracts/agreements for the completeness of its Office of the Chancellor 
signature of the Chancellor, attachments  
upon completion of legal  
clearance (if needed) and 
required signatures with 3. The Chancellor acts on the Chancellor 

 5 Days 
attachments (ID, LIB, etc.)  request.  Office of the Chancellor 

2. Receives signed copy 4. Releases the signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 7 Days   

 

41



 

 
27. Approval and Awarding of Contracts (public bidding, infrastructure contracts not exceeding P30M) 
Process of  awarding contracts (public bidding, infrastructure contracts not exceeding P30M) 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Complex to Highly Technical  

Type of Transaction: G2B, G2G 

Who may avail:  Suppliers and Contractors 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

          Contracts and attachments                        SPMO 

PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID 

TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Receives the documents 
 

1. SPMO thru the BAC performs 
2. Reviews the documents Office Staff 

the procurement process until None 1 Day 
and the completeness of its Office of the Chancellor 

Notice of Award, then submits the 
attachments, correctness of 

draft contract with approved Legal 
entries 

Clearance to the Chancellor.  
 3. The Chancellor reviews and Chancellor 

 18 Days 
approves the contract. Office of the Chancellor 

2. Receives signed copy 4. Releases the signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

 TOTAL None 20 Days   

 

42



 

 
28. Endorsement to Office of the President all public bidding contracts of P30M and above 

Process of endorsing to Office of the President, all public bidding contracts of P30M and above 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Complex to Highly Technical  

Type of Transaction: G2G, G2C 

Who may avail:  Winning bidders/contractors  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

           Contracts and attachments                SPMO and Legal Office  

PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

TIME 

1. Receives the documents 
 

1. SPMO thru the BAC and the 2. Reviews the documents Office Staff 
None 1 Day 

Legal Office prepares, reviews, and the completeness of its Office of the Chancellor 

and submits to the Office of the attachments, legal 

Chancellor pertinent contracts with clearance 

attachments for submission to the 3. The Chancellor reviews 
Office of the President. and endorses all Chancellor 

 18 Days 
documents to the UP Office of the Chancellor 
System. 

2. Receives signed copy 4. Releases the signed None 1 Day Office Staff 
copy Office of the Chancellor 

 TOTAL None 20 Days   

 
 

43



 

 
29. Approval of the filing of court and quasi-judicial pleadings 
Process of filing of court and quasi-judicial pleadings 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Complex to Highly Technical  

Type of Transaction: G2G - Government to Government 

Who may avail:  (For cases filed against UP Cebu) 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

          Affidavits and attachments                      Legal Office  

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 

1. Legal Office prepares the 1. Receives the legal documents None 1 Day Office Staff 
pleadings. Office of the Chancellor 

2. The Chancellor reviews the  18 Days 
pleadings, with complete attachments 
prepared by the Legal Office.  

Chancellor 
 

Office of the Chancellor 
3. The Chancellor endorses, signs the 
pleadings, and the Legal Office staff is 
sent to file it to court. 

2. Receives signed copy 4. Releases the signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

 TOTAL None 20 Days   

 

44



 

 
30. Actions on complaints against faculty and staff  

Process of resolving complaints against faculty and staff 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Highly Technical  

Type of Transaction: G2C - Government to Citizen 

Who may avail:   

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

                                    N/A 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 

1. Upon receipt of the complaint, 1. Receives the request None 1 Day Office Staff 
the Chancellor calls upon a fact- Office of the Chancellor 
finding committee to endorse their 

2. Reviews and studies the report,  18 Days 
report/findings to the Office of the 

whereby needed, requests the 
Chancellor within 30days from 

assistance of the Legal Office Chancellor 
receipt of the notice.    

/creates a disciplinary tribunal. Office of the Chancellor 
 
3. The Chancellor acts on the request. 

2. Receives signed copy 4. Releases the signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

 TOTAL None 20 Days   

 
 

45



 

 
31. Action of disciplinary complaints of personnel/students 
Process of resolving disciplinary complaints of personnel/students 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Highly Technical  

Type of Transaction: G2C - Government to Citizen 

Who may avail:   

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

                                    N/A 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 

1. The fact-finding committee, the 1. Receives the request None 1 Day Office Staff 
Administrative Disciplinary Tribunal  Office of the Chancellor 
or the Student Disciplinary Tribunal 
endorses their report and 2. Reviews the endorsements,  18 Days 

recommendations to the if needed, requests the 

Chancellor.   assistance of the Legal 
Chancellor 

Office 
Office of the Chancellor 

 
3. The Chancellor acts on the 

request. 

2. Receives signed copy 4. Releases the signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

 TOTAL None 20 Days   

 

46



 

 
32. Submission of periodic administrative reports to UP System 

 Process of sending periodic administrative reports to UP System 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Complex 

Type of Transaction: G2G - Government to Government 

Who may avail:  Administrators of concerned agencies  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Pro-forma/template provided by UP provided by concerned requesting office  

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 

1. Concerned Office prepares 1. Receives the None 1 Day 
the required report document/report 

  Office Staff 
2. VCA endorses 2. Reviews the correctness Office of the Chancellor 

and completeness of the 
data and its attachments 

3. The Chancellor reviews  5 Days 
and endorses all Chancellor 
documents to be submitted Office of the Chancellor 
to the UP System. 

3. Receives signed copy 4. Releases the signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

 TOTAL None 7 Days   

 

47



 

 
33. Action on Disposal of items 
Process on disposal of items 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Complex 

Type of Transaction: G2G - Government to Government 

Who may avail:  Administrators of concerned agencies  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Pro-forma/template provided by UP                             N/A  

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 

1. Upon submission of the report 1. Receives the None 1 Day 
of the Disposal Committee document/report 
(members are: SPMO,  

Office Staff 
representatives from different 2. Reviews the correctness 

Office of the Chancellor 
colleges), with a proper and completeness of the data 
recommendation through and its attachments 
channels, it is then forwarded to  
the Office of the Chancellor. 

3. The Chancellor reviews and  5 Days Chancellor 
acts on the request.  Office of the Chancellor 

2. Receives signed copy 4. Releases the signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

 TOTAL None 7 Days   

 

48



 

34. Approval for increase of FPOC rates, other fees 
Process of requesting for approval of increase in current FPOC rates and other fees  

 

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor 

Classification: Highly Technical  

Type of Transaction: G2G - Government to Government 

Who may avail: UP Cebu administrators; FPOC members 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Letter and Proposal                           

FEES TO BE 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID 

1. The proponent submits 1. Receives the request and None  1 Day 
Office Staff 

its proposal for increase of reviews the completeness of 
Office of the Chancellor 

fees to the Office, upon the the documents  
endorsement of all 
members of the FPOC, 2. The Chancellor acts on  18 Days  

which is chaired by the Vice the request. Chancellor 

Chancellor for Office of the Chancellor 

Administration. 

2. Receives signed copy 3. Releases the signed copy None 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None  20 Days   

● Requests for approval of increase in FPOC rates and other fees not covered under the current delineation of authority of the Chancellor shall 
be endorsed to the Board of Regents.   

 

49



TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (TTBDO)

EXTERNAL SERVICES

1. Assessment of invention of product
In order how to protect the intellectual property of a product or invention, as well as determining how the product can move
forward, it is important to perform an assessment. This allows the client to make a decision as to what next step to take for the
product.

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor – TTBDO
Classification: Highly Technical
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Client
Who may avail: External Clients

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
Completed Disclosure Form UP Cebu STIITCH
Official Receipt

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING PERSON
TIME RESPONSIBLE

1. Submits completed 1. Reviews request form and PHP10,000.00 (Basic Assessment: 7 – 20 Working Admin Staff
disclosure form. generate billing statement. Potential IP, Potential Markets, Days TTBDO

Marketing Strategy)
2. Pays to Cashier’s 2. Cashier’s Office issues
Office official receipt PHP25,000.00 (Advanced Staff

Assessment: Cashier’s Office
3. Shows official receipt. 3.1 Makes photocopy of Potential IP, Potential Markets,

official receipt. Marketing Strategy, Admin Staff
Commercialization Options, Risk TTBDO

3.2 Sets date for client to Assessment)
return and pick-up
assessment.

TOTAL Basic Assessment – PHP10,000.00 7 – 20 Working
Advanced Assessment – Days
PHP25,000.00

50



2. Basic patentability search for product or invention
This is a general patentability search and gives an overview of what similar products are available in the market.

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor – TTBDO
Classification: Complex
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Client
Who may avail: External Clients

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
Completed request form UP Cebu TTBDO

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING TIME PERSON
RESPONSIBLE

1. Submits completed 1. Reviews request form
request form. and sets date for client to

return and pick-up search None 7 Working Days Admin Staff
TTBD

results.
TOTAL None 7 Working Days

51



3. Advanced patentability search for product or invention
This is a more detail patentability search and is no longer limited to providing an overview of what is available in the market. It also
presents the possible competition of the product and what improvements to make in order not to infringe.

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor – TTBDO
Classification: Highly Technical
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Client
Who may avail: External Clients

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
Completed request form UP Cebu TTBDO
Official receipt

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING TIME PERSON
RESPONSIBLE

1. Submits completed 1. Reviews request form and PHP15,000.00 20 Working Days Admin Staff
request form. generates billing statement. TTBDO

2. Pays to Cashier’s Office 2. Cashier’s Office issues official Staff
receipt Cashier’s Office

3. Shows official receipt. 3.1 Makes photocopy of official Admin Staff
receipt. TTBDO
3.2 Sets date for client to return and
pick-up assessment.

TOTAL PHP15,000.00 20 Working Days

52



4. Claims Drafting
This involves drafting the actual claims so that the intellectual property protection can be officially filed.

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor – TTBDO
Classification: Highly Technical
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Client
Who may avail: External Clients

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
Completed request form UP Cebu TTBDO
Official receipt

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING PERSON
TIME RESPONSIBLE

1. Submits completed 1. Reviews request form and Utility Model – PHP10,000.00 20 Working Admin Staff
request form. generates billing statement. Patent – PHP25,000.00 Days TTBDO

2. Pays to Cashier’s Office 2. Cashier’s Office issues Staff
official receipt Cashier’s Office

3. Shows official receipt. 3.1 Makes photocopy of official Admin Staff
receipt. TTBDO
3.2 Sets date for client to
return and pick-up and review
claims drafter.

TOTAL Utility Model – PHP10,000.00 20 Working
Patent – PHP25,000.00 Days

53



5. Filing for IP Protection
Clients have the option to file on their own. However, the office can do the same for a fee. The advantage is that this results in UP
Cebu ITSO becoming their official representative and thus be able to help them more efficiently.

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor – TTBDO
Classification: Simple
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Client
Who may avail: External Clients

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
IP Documents UP Cebu TTBDO
Official receipt

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING PERSON
TIME RESPONSIBLE

1. Submits IP 1. Reviews submitted documents Trademark – PHP2,000.00 3 Working Days Admin Staff
documents. and request form and generates TTBDO

billing statement for admin fee. Copyright – PHP2,000.00

2. Pays to Cashier’s 2. Cashier’s Office issues official Industrial Design - Staff
Office receipt PHP2,000.00 Cashier’s Office

3. Shows official receipt. 3.1 Makes photocopy of official Utility Model - PHP3,000.00 Admin Staff
receipt. TTBDO
3.2 Sets date for client to return Patent – PHP3,000.00
and pick-up filling documents as
well as payment to IPO PHIL..

TOTAL Trademark – PHP2,000.00 3 Working Days
Copyright – PHP2,000.00
Industrial Design -
PHP2,000.00
Utility Model - PHP3,000.00
Patent – PHP3,000.00

54



6. Application to be part of Incubation Program
In order to be able to join the Incubation Program, potential startups need to be able to show, among others, the viability of their
product or services and their plans. This is to make sure that those who join the program are indeed deserving.

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor – TTBDO
Classification: Complex
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Client
Who may avail: External Clients

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
Required Documents UP Cebu TTBDO
Official receipt

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING TIME PERSON
RESPONSIBLE

1. Submits required documents. 1. Reviews submitted
documents. None 7 Working Days Incubator Manager

2. Receives decision of UP Cebu 2. Informs client of decision. UP Cebu inIT
inIT management.

TOTAL None 7 Working Days

55



7. Memorandum of Agreement
Once a startup is approved to be part of the program, they need to sign a Memorandum of Agreement dictating the terms of their
being part of said program.

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor – TTBDO
Classification: Complex
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Client
Who may avail: External Clients

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
Required Documents UP Cebu TTBDO
Official receipt

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE
PAID PROCESSING TIME PERSON

RESPONSIBLE
1. Client receives their copy 1. Releases copy of MOA to locator.
of the MOA.

2. Client submits signed 2.1 Receives signed copy and
copy. forward to Office of the Chancellor. None 7 Working Days Admin Staff

TTBDO
2.2 Receives signed copy from OC.

3. Receives copy of MOA. 3. Releases copy of completed
MOA.

TOTAL None 7 Working Days

56



57



INTERNAL SERVICES

1. Assessment of invention of product
In order how to protect the intellectual property of a product or invention, as well as determining how the product can move
forward, it is important to perform an assessment. This allows the client to decide as to what next step to take for the product.

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor – TTBDO
Classification: Highly Technical
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Client
Who may avail: Faculty, Students, Staff

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
Completed disclosure form UP Cebu TTBDO

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE
PAID PROCESSING TIME PERSON

RESPONSIBLE
1. Submits disclosure form. 1.1 Reviews disclosure form. None

1.2 Conducts Outlook Assessment 7 – 20 Working Days Admin Staff
TTBDO

2. Receives results of 2. Releases technology brief.
review.

TOTAL None 7 – 20 Working Days

58



2. Patentability search for product or invention
This patentability search gives the client an overview of what is available in the market while also giving the possible competition
of the product and what improvements to make in order not to infringe.

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor – TTBDO
Classification: Highly Technical
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Client
Who may avail: Faculty, Students, Staff

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
Completed disclosure form UP Cebu TTBDO

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE
PAID PROCESSING TIME PERSON

RESPONSIBLE
1. Submits assessment from 1. Receives assessment and
STIITCH. perform patentability search. None 20 Working Days Admin Staff

TTBDO
2. Receives search results 2.Releases search results

TOTAL None 20 Working Days

59



3. Claims Drafting
This involves drafting the actual claims so that the intellectual property protection can be officially filed.

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor – TTBDO
Classification: Highly Technical
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Client
Who may avail: Faculty, Student, Staff

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
Completed request form UP Cebu TTBDO

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING TIME PERSON
RESPONSIBLE

1. Submits completed 1. Reviews request form and
request form. sets date for release of claims None 20 Working Days Admin Staff

draft. TTBDO

TOTAL None 20 Working Days

60



4. Filing for IP Protection
UP Cebu constituents are automatically represented by the UP Cebu ITSO should they make the decision to file for IP protection
with the university.

Office or Division: Office of the Chancellor – TTBDO
Classification: Simple
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Client
Who may avail: Faculty, Student, Staff

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
IP Documents UP Cebu TTBDO
Official receipt

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING TIME PERSON
RESPONSIBLE

1. Submits IP documents. 1.1 Reviews submitted
documents. Admin Staff

None 3 Working Days TTBDO
1.2 Discusses with client on
decision to move forward or not.

TOTAL None 3 Working Days

61



 

 
 

LEGAL OFFICE 

INTERNAL SERVICES 
 

1. Service of pleadings and other required legal documents to judicial, quasi-judicial and administrative 
agencies within the reglementary period/s set under the applicable rules 
Submission of required pleadings/documents to other government agencies 

 
Office of Division Legal Office 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2G - Government to Government 
Who may avail Office of the Chancellor, All UP Cebu Offices  

CHECKLIST OF WHERE TO SECURE 
REQUIREMENTS 

1. Signed and notarized pleadings and/or documents to be sent or From the availing Office 
furnished to the appropriate/required government agency 

2. Complete attachment/s (if any) 
FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING PERSON 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS 
TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Submits signed 1. Receives pleading/document;    
pleading/  None  
document to the 1.1. Checks for completeness of  15 Minutes  
legal office. attachments and signatures   

 Legal Assistant I 
 

 
 
 

2. Submits the pleading/document to the  Legal Office 
Transportation and other 

appropriate/required government agency 2 Days 
necessary expenses 

within the reglementary period/s set by shall be shouldered by 
applicable rules; the requesting office 

N 
 
 
 

3. Compiles the received copy in the legal  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 15 Minutes 

office file. None 
 

 88 

62



 

TOTAL NA 2 Days and 30  
Minutes 

 89 

63



 

 

2. Facilitation of the Notarization of UP Cebu documents 
Submission of contracts and other legal documents to the Legal Officer who is a Notary Public together with the parties executing 
the contract/document for notarization 

 
Office of Division Legal Office 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2G - Government to Government, G2C - Government to Citizen 
Who may avail All UP Cebu Constituents 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. One (1) valid government issued ID as competent evidence of From the appropriate government agency (e.g. SSS, LTO, 

identity PRC, etc.) 

2. Complete document to be notarized, including attachments (if any),  
plus two extra copies for the Notary Public for recording/court 
reporting purposes 

PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO BE PAID 

TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Submits signed documents 1. Receives document for legal    

to be notarized to the legal clearance;    
office;   NONE 15 Minutes  

1.1. Checks for completeness of  
attachments and signatures  
1.2. Checks whether the Legal Assistant I 
government issued ID of the Legal Officer 

requesting party is available (who is a Notary 

2. Personal appearances of 2. Submits document to the notary Public) 
 

Legal Office 
the signatories before the public together with the Depending on the 45 minutes 
notary public. signatories; type of document to 

be notarized. 
 

Please see IBP 
Schedule of Fees 

 

 90 

64



 

 3. Returns notarized document to NONE  Legal Assistant I 
 

the signatories and keeps one 2 Days 
copy for the legal office file. 

TOTAL       3 Days  

 91 

65



 

 

3. Issuance of pro-forma affidavits and legal documents 
Giving out of standard legal forms to the clients to be filled out 

 
Office of Division Legal Office 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2G - Government to Government, G2C - Government to Citizen 
Who may avail All UP Cebu Offices  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
None Legal Office 

PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO BE PAID 

TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Issuances of the pro-forma affidavit or   Legal Assistant I 

1. Personal requests at the 
legal document to the client/office None 3 Hours Legal Officer/s 

Legal Office. 
concerned. Legal Office 

TOTAL None 3 Hours  

 92 

66



 

 

4. Legal Consultation 
Giving verbal legal advice to the client 

 
Office of Division Legal Office 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2G - Government to Government 
Who may avail   All UP Cebu Offices  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. Copies of documents, files, and papers in relation to the matter for Legal Office 

consultation, if applicable 
FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Secure appointment 1. Confirms availability of Legal Officer Legal 
None 1 Hour 

schedule personally, concerned Assistant I 

e-mail, or other Legal Office 

means 
2. Personal appointment 2. Verbally addresses queries/issues requiring Legal Officer 

None 1 Hour 
in the Legal Office on the application of law or university rules. Legal Office 
time and day scheduled 
by Legal Assistant I. 

TOTAL None 2  
Hours 

 93 

67



 

 

5. Render Legal Opinion 
Giving a written legal advice/opinion to the client 

 
Office of Division Legal Office 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2G - Government to Government 
Who may avail  All UP Cebu Offices 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. A brief narrative/summary of the concern or question subject of the Legal From the Office concerned 

Opinion 
2. Documents/affidavits supporting the claim of the client or the office 

concerned. 
FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 

CLIENT STEPS/ AGENCY ACTIONS 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Official request issuance of 1. Acceptance of request None   
Legal Opinion, including 1.1 Confirmation of request   Legal 

1 Hour 
supporting documents in the said 1.2 Endorsement/assignment to the  Assistant 

request available Legal Officer Legal Office 
 

 
 

 2. Assesses and studies the legal problem; None   
 

7 Days  
Legal Officer 

 3. Issues written legal opinion. None           Legal Office 

 

7 Days 

TOTAL None 14 Days and 1  
Hour 

 94 

68



 

 

6. Contract Review 
Review and assessment of UP Cebu contracts if it is in accordance with Philippine laws and UP rules 

 
Office of Division Legal Office 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail   All UP Cebu Offices 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. Photocopy/electronic/scanned copy of the contract to be reviewed. From the Office concerned 
2. Attached documents/papers/files, if appropriate. 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Submits contract to be 1. Receives the Contract to be reviewed;    
reviewed to the Legal   Legal Assistant I 

15 
Office; 1.1. Checks for completeness of attachments and  Legal Office 

Minutes 
signatures  
2. Assesses the contract on whether or not it is in   

Legal Officer 
accordance with Philippine laws and university 8 Days 

Legal Office 
rules; None 
3. Issues a legal clearance Legal Officer 

1 Day 
Legal Office 

TOTAL None 9 Days and 15  
Minutes 

 95 

69



 

 

7. Draft pleadings, contracts, policy, reports, pleadings, and other legal documents 
Write pleadings, contracts and other legal documents for the university and other clients 

 
Office of Division Legal Office 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail All UP Cebu Offices 

For administrative, criminal, or civil cases to be filed or to answer by the Office or officer/employee concerned in 
an official capacity, prior authorization from the Chancellor is required.  

 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

1. Pertinent records and supporting documents in support of the case/claim; From the Office concerned 
2. Annexes in the form of letters, pictures, issuances, and all other documentary 
evidence. 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Submits records, 1. Receives records, documents and annexes for  Legal Assistant I 
documents, and annexes review and analysis;  15 Minutes 

Legal Office 
to the Legal Office; 

2. Synthesizes legal issues and arguments;  
Legal Officer 

 10 Days 
Legal Office 

None 
3. Drafts pleading/contract/document Legal Officer 

8 Days 
Legal Office 

4. Issuance/release of final output to the requesting Legal Officer 
party  1 Day 

Legal Office 

TOTAL None 19 Days and 15  
Minutes 

 96 

70



 

8. Represent UP Cebu in judicial, quasi-judicial and administrative bodies/government agencies 
Enter an appearance in court or any quasi-judicial or administrative government agency on behalf of the university 

 
Office of Division Legal Office 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail Office of the Chancellor, All UP Cebu Offices (subject to prior authorization of the Chancellor) 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. Case record/file From the Office concerned 
2. All available documents, files, and papers concerning the case 

PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO BE PAID 

TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Written request by any UP 1. Reads and synthesizes the  5 Days  

Cebu Office to attend a court case records;  
session or administrative 2. Interviews witnesses/parties Depending on the 5 Days Legal Officer  
hearing or any other setting concerned; Special Counsel 

With deputation 
wherein appearance of the UP 3. Makes a case analysis; Allowance in the from the Office of 
Cebu counsel is required; or official deputation by 5 Days 

the Solicitor 
the endorsement of a service 4. Prepares arguments; the Office of the General (OSG) 
of an order/ subpoena/ notice Solicitor General to the 4 Days Legal Office 

from the concerned judicial/ Legal Officer 
5. Appears as counsel for UP 

quasi- judicial/ administrative concerned for the  
Cebu in the judicial/quasi- 

bodies. fiscal year 1 Day 
judicial/administrative body 
concerned.  

 
TOTAL NA 20 Days  

 97 

71



 

 

9. Fact-finding/conduct of investigations/grievance 
Oversee and conduct fact-finding/investigations and grievance procedures 

 
Office of Division Legal Office 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail Office of the Chancellor, All UP Cebu Offices (subject to prior authorization of the Chancellor) 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. Complaint; From the Office concerned 
2. Available documents, papers, files, and other evidence to support the claim or 

allegation 
FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Written request for fact 1. Sends Notices; None Legal Assistant I 
1 Day 

finding/investigation.  Legal Office 

2. Assesses/reviews document;   
4 Days 

  
3. Conducts hearings/investigations;  

None 7 Days 
 

Legal Officer 
4. Prepares or drafts the  Legal Office 

decision/recommendation based on the 7 Days 
documentary evidence and oral testimonies; 

5. Issues Decision/Recommendation. 
1 Day 

TOTAL None 20 Days  

 

 98 

72



PUBLIC INFORMATION OFFICE (PIO)

EXTERNAL SERVICES

1. Create content for UP Cebu website and social media platforms
Ensure the effective, efficient, and timely dissemination of information about the University to the general public through various
media platforms (i.e. print, radio, website, and social media platforms) and manage webometrics performance of the University’s
website.

Office or Division: Public Information Office
Classification: Complex
Type of Transaction: G2C - Government to Citizen, G2G - Government to Government, G2B - Government to Business
Who may avail: All external and internal parties

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
1. Letter request of desired posting sent to UP Cebu PIO email

(pio.upcebu@up.edu.ph) or to 2F TIC Bldg. Flip Facility Public Information Office

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON
BE PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE

1. Sends letter request to 1. Reviews letter and decides on approval
PIO email or PIO office action. 1 Day PIO Staff

Public Information Office
2. Waits for approval/ 2. Approves/disapproves the requested None

endorsement of PIO posting and feedback to the client of 3 Days PIO Head
decision Public Information Office

TOTAL None 4 Days

73



2. Answering queries regarding the University and services offered by the University
Provide answers to queries regarding the University and services offered by the University. Questions are coursed through PIO
email, Official UP Cebu Facebook Page, and Office UP Cebu Twitter Account

Office or Division: Public Information Office
Classification: Complex
Type of Transaction: G2C - Government to Citizen, G2G - Government to Government, G2B - Government to Business
Who may avail: All external and internal parties

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
Public Information Office Email (pio.upcebu@up.edu.ph)

None UP Cebu Official Facebook Page
UP Cebu Official X Page
UP Cebu Official Instagram Page

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON
BE PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE

1. Contacts the PIO 1. Provides answers to the inquiry posed or
through social media directed inquiry of the general public
sites, email, or towards the concerned office. None 5 Days PIO Staff

Public Information Office
telephone

  TOTAL None 5 Days

74



3. Approval/ Disapproval of posters posted on UP Cebu grounds and UP Cebu Official Social Media
Sites

Conduct content management (includes reviewing and monitoring of ethical and propriety standards of materials)

Office or Division: Public Information Office
Classification: Complex
Type of Transaction: G2C - Government to Citizen, G2G - Government to Government, G2B - Government to Business
Who may avail: All external and internal parties

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
Approved publicity material to be posted endorsed by a certain office/client Public Information Office Email (pio.upcebu@up.edu.ph)

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON
BE PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE

1. Sends letter request and 1. Reviews letter and decides on approval
publicity material/poster to action.
PIO email or PIO office for 1 Day PIO Staff

Public Information Office
review
2. Waits for approval/ 2. Approves/disapproves the requested
endorsement of PIO for posting and feedback to the client of decision 2 Days PIO Head
publishing Public Information Office

2.1 Retrieves pubmat from None
PIO and avails of assistance
from Campus Maintenance 1 Day Campus Maintenance
Office for posting on Office
designated areas
3. Waits for publishing on 3. Posts and disseminates publicity material
UP Cebu’s official social and other information on UP Cebu’s 2 Days PIO Staff
media sites official social media sites Public Information Office

  TOTAL None 6 Days

75



4. Provide documentation for different events
Communicate and clarify administration policies; manage communication and respond to queries and concerns among constituents
and various stakeholders, including students, unions, government agencies, informal settlers, etc.; and manage communication and
liaison with UP alumni

Office or Division: Public Information Office
Classification: Simple
Type of Transaction: G2C - Government to Citizen, G2G - Government to Government, G2B - Government to Business
Who may avail: All colleges, external event partners

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
1. Letter indicating the event’s purpose to UP Cebu PIO email

(pio.upcebu@up.edu.ph) or 2F TIC Bldg. Flip Facility Public Information Office Email
2. Request for documentation of the event (pio.upcebu@up.edu.ph)

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON
BE PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE

1. Expresses intent to 1. Coordinates with different offices of events
have documentation for occurring within or outside the University None 1 Day PIO Staff
the event and provides the necessary documentation Public Information Office

  TOTAL None 1 Day

76



5. Organization of events
Participate in pre-event, event proper, and post-event activities, ensure the observance of protocols in events attended by the
University officials, government officials, and leaders of institutions

Office or Division: Public Information Office
Classification: Highly Technical
Type of Transaction: G2C - Government to Citizen, G2G - Government to Government, G2B - Government to Business
Who may avail: All colleges, external event partners

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
1. Letter indicating the purpose of the event to UP Cebu PIO email

(pio.upcebu@up.edu.ph) or 2F TIC Bldg. Flip Facility Public Information Office Email (pio.upcebu@up.edu.ph)

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON
BE PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE

1. Submits letter of intent 1. Organizes events for internal and
for the event concerned external stakeholders of the University
and requests assistance while coordinating with host office None 10 Days PIO Staff

Public Information Office
with event preparation.

2. Verifies budget with concerned office
hosting the event 3 Days Staff

Budget Office
3. Reserves event venue with Campus

Maintenance Office 1 Day Staff
Campus Maintenance Office

4. Coordinates with ITC for necessary Staff
equipment 2 Days Information Technology

Center
5. Coordinates with Campus Maintenance

Office for preparation of venue 5 Days Staff
Campus Maintenance Office

2. Shows up for the event 6. Conducts technical test with ITC before Staff
proper event 1 Day Information Technology

Center
 TOTAL None 22 Days

77



6. Layout designs or graphics
As the office serves as the communication arm of the University for its external stakeholders and takes charge of the public
relations program of the University, it coordinates and liaises with various media organizations and personalities and provides
information about important events and accomplishments of the University through published material.

Office or Division: Public Information Office
Classification: Complex
Type of Transaction: G2C - Government to Citizen, G2G - Government to Government, G2B - Government to Business
Who may avail: All colleges, external event partners

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
1. Letter indicating the event’s purpose to UP Cebu PIO email

(pio.upcebu@up.edu.ph) or 2F TIC Bldg. Flip Facility Public Information Office Email (pio.upcebu@up.edu.ph)
2. Request for published material and where to publish said material

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE

1. Expresses intent to have 1. Creates graphics for web and/or print
a printed and/or web media for public information or UP
graphic as an events
advertisement of events None 7 Days PIO Staff

Public Information Office
or recognition of
accomplishments

  TOTAL None 7 Days  

78



INTERNAL SERVICES

1. Provides UP System with updates/media/reports about UP Cebu
Communicate with UP System on UP Cebu updates through reports and media and vice versa for activities and events concerning
UP and UP Cebu’s public image.

Office or Division: Public Information Office
Classification: Complex
Type of Transaction: G2C - Government to Citizen, G2G - Government to Government, G2B - Government to Business
Who may avail: All colleges, external event partners

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
1. Email to UP Cebu PIO (pio.upcebu@up.edu.ph) Public Information Office

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE

1. UP System sends emails 1. Provides UP System with the desired
to UP Cebu PIO for output
information about updates/
media/reports about UP None 7 Days PIO Staff

Public Information Office
Cebu’s current and future
projects

  TOTAL None 7 Days  

79



FEEDBACK AND COMPLAINTS MECHANISM
How to send feedback Answer the client feedback form and drop it at the designated drop box at the Office of the

Chancellor (OC)

Contact info: +63 (32) 232 8187 loc 313
pio.upcebu@up.edu.ph

How feedbacks are processed One of the OC staff opens the drop box and compiles and records all feedback submitted.
How to file a complaint Answer the client feedback form and drop it at the designated drop box in front of the Office of the

University Registrar.

Complaints may also be filed via email. Make sure to provide the following information:
- Name of person being complained
- Incident
- Evidence

For inquiries and follow-ups:
+63 (32) 232 8187 loc 120
pio.upcebu@up.edu.ph

How complaints are processed One of the OC staff opens the drop box and compiles and records all feedback submitted, including
complaints.

If the complaint is found to have merit, it is forwarded to the Grievance Committee for further
investigation.

Contact Information of CCB, ARTA: complaints@arta.gov.ph 8478 5093
PCC, ARTA PCC: 8888

CCB: 0908-881-6565 (SMS)

80



BUDGET OFFICE 
 
INTERNAL SERVICES 
 

1. Processing of Letter Request for Funding  
Letter requests for funding projects, official travels, fellowships, and other activities related to the improvement of the different programs, colleges, offices, and the 
university as a whole will have to pass through the Budget Office for earmarking and certification of availability of funds. 
 
Office or Division: Budget Office  
Classification: Complex  
Type of Transaction: G2G – Government of Government  
Who may avail: University constituents/colleges/offices  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Letter/Proposal with necessary attachments  Requesting Office 
(1 copy each) 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Submits the Letter/Proposal 1.1 Receives and checks the completeness of None 7 Days Administrative Assistant 
with the necessary documents and updates the Document Budget Office 

attachments to the Budget Tracking System (DTS) for incoming  

Office  documents.   
Budget Head 

1.2 Reviews the documents, signs the 
Budget Office 

letter/proposal, and recommends appropriate 
 

funding source.   
1.3 Updates the Document Tracking System Administrative Assistant 
(Outgoing); delivers the signed letter to the Budget Office 
next concerned unit.  

  TOTAL None 7 Days   
 

  

81



2. Processing of Basic Paper (BP)  
    Necessary papers for faculty, REPS, and administrative personnel (Basic Papers) will be processed for budget clearance. 
 
Office or Division: Budget Office  
Classification: Complex  
Type of Transaction: G2G – Government of Government  
Who may avail: University constituents/colleges/offices  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Basic Paper (2 copies) HRDO 

FEES TO BE 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID 
1. Submits the Basic Paper to 1.1 Receives the Basic Paper and update None 7 Days Administrative Assistant 
the Budget Office  the Document Tracking System (DTS) for Budget Office 

incoming documents.  

1.2 Reviews and evaluates the document  
Administrative Assistant 

before processing and recording.  
Budget Office 

1.3 Reviews and signs the Basic Paper  
 

1.4 Updates the Document Tracking  
System (Outgoing), and deliver the signed Budget Head 
Basic Paper to the next signatory.  Budget Office 

 
 

Administrative Assistant 
Budget Office 

 
  TOTAL None 7 Days   

 
 
  

82



3. Processing of Purchase Request (PR)  
      The Budget Office receives purchase requests for evaluation and recommendation of the appropriate fund source. 
 
Office or Division: Budget Office  
Classification: Complex  
Type of Transaction: G2G – Government of Government  
Who may avail: University constituents/colleges/offices  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Purchase Request / Job Order Request / Request Form (3 copies) Requesting unit/office / HRDO 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Submits the Purchase Request / 1.1 Receives and checks the completeness None 7 Days Administrative Assistant 
Job Order Request / Request Form of documents and updates the Document Budget Office 
to the Budget Office  Tracking System (DTS) for incoming  

 documents.   

1.2 Encodes the document in the master  

list, reviews, evaluates, and recommends Administrative Assistant 
Budget Office 

appropriate fund source.  
 

1.3 Reviews and signs the document.   
1.4 Updates the Document Tracking Budget Head 
System (DTS) for outgoing documents and Budget Office 
delivers the signed documents to the UPC  
Accounting Office.   

Administrative Assistant 
Budget Office 

 
  TOTAL None 7 Days   

  

83



4. Processing of Obligation Request (ObR) & Budget Utilization Request (BUR)  
Obligation requests (OBR) and Budget Utilization Request documents need to be certified by the budget office as to the  existence of available appropriation and 
the availability of budget earmarked or utilized for the indicated purpose. 
 
Office or Division: Budget Office  
Classification: Complex  
Type of Transaction: G2G – Government of Government  
Who may avail: University constituents/colleges/offices  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
OBR or BUR Request Form PO or Receipts or Disbursement Voucher  Requesting unit/office  

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Submits the documents for ObR 1.1 Receives and checks the None 7 Days Administrative Assistant 
and BUR to the Budget Office  completeness of documents; Updates Budget Office 

 Document Tracking System (DTS) for  

incoming documents.  

1.2 Reviews and evaluates fund source,  
 

projects, programs, and activities.  
Budget Head 

1.3 Checks and encodes the signed Budget Office 
documents in the master list (UIS, oracle  
software). Administrative Assistant 
1.4 Updates the Document Tracking Budget Office 
System (DTS) for outgoing documents  
and delivers the documents to the next  
concerned unit.  Administrative Assistant 

Budget Office 
 

  TOTAL None 7 Days   
 
 
  

84



5. Processing/ Generating of Reports  
   The Budget Office processes and generates reports and sends it to the requesting office/unit. 
 
Office or Division: Budget Office  
Classification: Complex 
Type of Transaction: G2G – Government of Government  
Who may avail: University constituents/colleges/offices  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Request through email or other forms of communication  Requesting unit/office  

FEES TO BE 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID 
1. Submits request to Budget 1.1 Receives request from various None 20 Days Administrative Assistant 
office  units/colleges/ offices and encodes Budget Office 

 the document in the master list.  

 1.2 Reviews, evaluates, and Administrative Assistant 

 generates the requested data output. Budget Office 
 

1.3 Reviews, evaluates, and signs the 
 

generated report.  Budget Head 
1.4 Submits/emails the evaluated and Budget Office 
signed report to the requesting unit.   

Administrative Assistant 
Budget Office 

  TOTAL None 20 Days   
 
  

85



FEEDBACK AND COMPLAINTS MECHANISM 
How to send feedback Feedback may be filed using the feedback form at the Office of the Chancellor, or 

directly emailed to the office at oc.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
How feedbacks are processed The Budget Office receives feedback and sorts. For suggestions, the office investigates 

proactive solutions or reevaluation of protocols. 
    1.  Reevaluation of process  
    2. Corrective action 
    3. Organizational improvement  

How to file a complaint Complaints may be submitted using the feedback form at the Office of the Chancellor or 
directly emailed to the office at oc.upcebu@up.edu.ph attaching the signed formal 
complaint. 

How complaints are processed The Budget Office receives the complaint and directs the processing to the proper 
authority. 
For suggestive complaints, the office will look for proactive methods and will assess the 
validity of the complaint.  
For formal complaints, the office shall do the following:    
     1. Complaint processing 
     2. Complaint investigation 
     3. Corrective action 
     4. Complaint resolution 
     5. Organizational improvement  

Contact Information of CCB, PCC, ARTA ARTA: complaints@arta.gov.ph 8478 5093 
PCC: 8888 
CCB: 0908-881-6565 (SMS) 

 

 

86



 

UP CEBU UGNAYAN NG PAHINUNGÓD OFFICE 
 
EXTERNAL SERVICES 
 

1. Gurong Pahinungόd Program 
A selected qualified Gurong Pahinungόd is deployed to Public Elementary and High School within Cebu Province to serve as a full-
time public teacher for one (1) school year developing and implementing improvement projects at the school and community while 
maintaining exemplary behavior and demeanor expected from an Iskolar ng Bayan. 

 
Office of Division UP Cebu Ugnayan ng Pahinungόd 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government  
Who may avail Public Elementary and/or Highschool Principal 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. Assessment Form (1 copy) Ugnayan ng Pahinungόd Office 
2. Evaluation Form (1 copy) 
3. Agreement Form (2 copies) 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Submits letter of intent 1. Accepts letter of intent and check Pahinungόd Staff 

None 1 Hour 
 for completeness Pahinungόd Office 

1.1 Reviews the letter endorsed 
Program Coordinator 

by the Pahinungόd Staff None 1 Hour 
Pahinungόd Office 

1.2 Visits the school for ocular 
Program Coordinator 

inspection, assessment, and None 2 Days 
Pahinungόd Office 

evaluation 
1.3 Recommends and writes 

Program Coordinator 
endorsement letter to None 1 Hour 

Pahinungόd Office 
Pahinungόd Director 

 
 

87



 

2. Waits for the approval/ 2. Writes a letter and/or emails the 
Director 

disapproval of the Office of the Chancellor for None 1 Day 
Pahinungόd Office 

request notification, if approved 
3. Receives notice of 3. Drafts letter addressed to the 

approval/ requesting school regarding notice 
disapproval of approval/ disapproval and Pahinungόd Staff 

None 3 Days 
 submits letter to the Office of the Pahinungόd Office 

Chancellor for signature 

3.1 Sends letter or email the letter Pahinungόd Staff 
to the School Principal None 3 Hours 

Pahinungόd Office 

4. Reviews terms of the 4. Prepares contract agreement and 
policy submits draft contract to the Legal 
 Office and Office of the Chancellor Pahinungόd Staff 

None 15 Days 
Pahinungόd Office 

for approval and signature 

4.1 Coordinates with DepEd 
regarding the Gurong 
Pahinungόd on-site duties Program Coordinator 

None 2 Days 
and responsibilities and Pahinungόd Office 
provides a copy of the 
agreement 

4.2 Coordinates with LGU to 
confirm and guarantee the 
security of the Gurong  
Pahinungόd during their stay  
in the school / community,  Program Coordinator 

15 Days 
identifies host family where None Pahinungόd Office 

the Gurong Pahinungόd will  
stay and to provides a copy of  
the agreement 

 
 

88



 

5. Waits for the 5. Assigns and deploys Gurong 
Director 

deployment of Gurong Pahinungόd volunteer. None 2 Days 
Pahinungόd Office 

Pahinungόd  
5.1 Conducts monitoring of the 

Program Coordinator 
Gurong Pahinungod volunteer Pahinungόd Office 
through visit at least four (4) and 
times a year and Volunteer Welfare and 
communicates with the Nurturance Team (VWNT) 
parents of Gurong UP Cebu 
Pahinungόd volunteer for  
updates 120 Days VWNT is usually a Faculty and 

None 
 Staff Volunteers from DepEd 

and UP Cebu consist of 1 
DepEd rep, Pahinungόd 

Director, Gurong Pahinungόd 
Coordinator, and at least 1 
faculty whose expertise is 

related to the subject matter 
handled by the GP. 

6. Submits progress 6. Coordinates and collects quarterly 
report per quarter for progress report from the school Program Coordinator 

Pahinungόd Office 
evaluation and where the Gurong Pahinungόd 

and 
documentation volunteer is deployed None 120 Days 

Volunteer Welfare and 
purposes Nurturance Team (VWNT) 
 UP Cebu 

6.1 Prepares and submits 
documentation report to Program Coordinator 

Pahinungόd Office 
System Pahinungόd 

None 5 Days and 
Director 

Pahinungόd Office 

 TOTAL None 285 Days, 6 Hours  

 
 

89



 

2. Disaster Risk Reduction Management (DRRM) Buhay Pahinungόd Program 
A Disaster Risk Reduction Management (DRRM) Buhay Pahinungόd training and orientation is offered to any Local Government 
Unit within Cebu Province to raise awareness and to help build a resilient community. 

 
Office of Division UP Cebu Ugnayan ng Pahinungόd 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail Barangay Captain within Cebu and Cebu Province 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. Survey Form on DRRM Training Needs (1 copy) Ugnayan ng Pahinungόd Office 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Submits letter request for 1. Accepts letter request and checks Pahinungόd Staff 

DRRM training for completeness None 1 Hour 
Pahinungόd Office 

 
1.1 Reviews the request, assesses, 

and evaluates the status of the 
Program Coordinator 

Barangay who requested for a None 2 Days 
Pahinungόd Office 

DRRM Buhay Pahinungόd 
training 

1.2 Writes or emails endorsement Program Coordinator 
letter to Pahinungόd Director None 1 Hour 

Pahinungόd Office 

2. Waits for the approval/ 2. Reviews the endorsement for 
Director 

disapproval of the approval/ disapproval of the training None 1 Day 
Pahinungόd Office 

request request  
3. Receives notice of 3. Drafts letter addressed to the Pahinungόd Staff 

approval/ disapproval. requesting barangay re notice of Pahinungόd Office 
 approval/ disapproval and submits None 3 Days and 

letter to the Office of the Chancellor Director 
for signature Pahinungόd Office 

3.1 Sends letter or emails the letter Pahinungόd Staff 
to the Barangay Captain None 3 Hours 

Pahinungόd Office 

 
 

90



 

4. Reviews terms of 4. Prepares contract of agreement and 
policies and agreements. submits draft contract to the Legal Pahinungόd Staff 
 Office and Office of the Chancellor None 15 Days 

Pahinungόd Office 
for approval and signature 

4.1 Invites participants  4.1 Coordinates with Barangay 
and prepares venue for Captain for the list of participants, 

Program Coordinator 
the training. identifies the venue, and None 3 Days 

Pahinungόd Office 
provides a copy of the contract of 
agreement 

4.2 Identifies resource speaker(s) 
Program Coordinator 

from UP Cebu regular staff or None 5 Days 
Pahinungόd Office 

faculty to handle the training 
4.3 Schedules date preferred by the 

speaker and informs the 
 

requesting barangay of the 
None 3 Days Program Coordinator 

tentative date for them to confirm 
Pahinungόd Office 

their availability on the chosen 
date 

4.4 Facilitates logistics, food, 
transportation, honorarium of the 

Pahinungόd Staff 
resource speaker(s), registration None 10 Days 

Pahinungόd Office 
for the training proper, and 
evaluation forms. 

45 Days, 5 
TOTAL None  

Hours 
 
  

 
 

91



 

3. Teachers Development Training Program 
A Teachers Development Training Program is offered to any public Elementary, High school, and College within Cebu Province 
that aims to develop public school and higher education teacher’s competencies in content, research, and pedagogy. 

 
Office of Division UP Cebu Ugnayan ng Pahinungόd 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail Public Elementary/Highschool Principal  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. Assessment Form (1 copy) Ugnayan ng Pahinungόd Office 
2. Evaluation Form (1 copy) 
3. Agreement Form (2 copies) 

FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

BE PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Submits letter request 1. Accepts letter request and checks for Pahinungόd Staff 

None 1 Hour 
for Teachers completeness Pahinungόd Office 
Development Training 1.1Reviews the letter, assesses, and Program Coordinator 

 evaluates the status of the school None 2 Days Pahinungόd Office 
 

1.2Writes or emails endorsement letter to 
Program Coordinator 

Pahinungόd Director None 1 Hour 
Pahinungόd Office 

2. Waits for the approval/ 2. Reviews the endorsement and 
Director 

disapproval of the approves /disapproves the training None 1 Day 
Pahinungόd Office 

request request. 
3. Receives notice of 3. Drafts letter addressed to the 

approval requesting school re notice of approval/ Pahinungόd Staff 

 disapproval and submits letter to the Pahinungόd Office 

Office of the Chancellor for signature None 3 Days and 
Director 

Pahinungόd Office 

 
 

92



 

3.1 Sends letter or emails the letter to the Pahinungόd Staff 
None 3 Hours 

School Principal Pahinungόd Office 

4. Reviews terms of 4. Prepares contract of agreement and 
policies and contract of submits draft contract to the Legal Pahinungόd Staff 
agreement Office and Office of the Chancellor for None 15 Days 

Pahinungόd Office 
approval and signature. 

4.1 Invites the teachers 4.2 Coordinates with the Principal regarding 
 

to attend and the list of participants, identifies the   
Program Coordinator 

prepare the venue training venue, and provides a copy of None 3 Days 
Pahinungόd Office 

for the training the contract of agreement 
 4.3 Looks for UP Cebu Faculty who will 

Program Coordinator 
conduct the training None 5 Days 

Pahinungόd Office 

4.4 Schedules date preferred by the 
speaker and informs the requesting Program Coordinator 

None 3 Days 
school to confirm their availability on Pahinungόd Office 
the chosen date  

4.5 Facilitates logistics, food, 
transportation, honorarium for the 10 Days Pahinungόd Staff 

None 
speaker(s), registration during the  Pahinungόd Office 
training proper and evaluation forms. 

42 Days, 5  
TOTAL None 

Hours 
  
  

 
 

93



 

4. Tutorial Service Program 
A Tutorial Service Program is offered to any public elementary or high school within Cebu Province to reinforce the lessons taught 
in some basic academic subjects such as Mathematics, English, Science, & Computer. Tutorial program focus on the students who 
needs intervention because of their low performance in a particular class. 

 
Office of Division UP Cebu Ugnayan ng Pahinungόd 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail Public Elementary/Highschool Principal  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. Assessment Form (1 copy) Ugnayan ng Pahinungόd Office 
2. Evaluation Form (1 copy) 
3. Parent’s Consent Form (2 copies) 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Submits letter request 1. Accepts letter request and checks the Pahinungόd Staff 

to avail the Tutorial completeness None 1 Hour 
Pahinungόd Office 

Service Program 
1.1 Reviews the letter, assesses and 

evaluates the status of the school such Program Coordinator 
as the number of student population None 3 Days 

Pahinungόd Office 
and the need for tutorial service 

1.2 Writes or emails endorsement letter to Program Coordinator 
Pahinungόd Director None 1 Hour 

Pahinungόd Office 

2. Waits for the approval/ 2. Reviews the endorsement and 
disapproval approves/ disapproves the Tutorial Director 

None 1 Day 
Service Program request. Pahinungόd Office 

3. Receives notice of 3. Drafts letter addressed to the Pahinungόd Staff 
approval/ disapproval requesting school re notice of Pahinungόd Office 

 approval/ disapproval and submits None 3 Days and 
letter to the Office of the Chancellor Director 
for signature Pahinungόd Office 

 
 

94



 

3.1 Sends letter or emails the letter to the Pahinungόd Staff 
None 3 Hours 

School Principal Pahinungόd Office 
4. Reviews terms of 4. Prepares contract of agreement and 

policies and contract of submits draft contract to the Legal Pahinungόd Staff 
None 15 Days 

agreement Office and Office of the Chancellor for Pahinungόd Office 
 approval and signature 

4.1 Notifies the students 4.1 Coordinates with the Principal 
who will join the tutorial regarding the parent’s consent form 
program to have their and provide a copy of the contract of Program Coordinator 

None 3 Days 
parents sign the agreement Pahinungόd Office 
parent’s consent form 

4.2 Submits list of students 4.2 Gets the list of students who will avail 
who will avail of the the tutorial service program Program Coordinator 

None 2 Days 
Tutorial Program. Pahinungόd Office 

4.3 Prepares classroom to 4.3 Identifies classroom to be utilized 
Program Coordinator 

be used during the during the tutorial session  None 2 Days 
Pahinungόd Office 

entire tutorial sessions 
 4.4 Schedules date preferred by the 

student volunteer tutors and informs 
the requesting school of the tentative  Director 

None 
schedule to confirm their availability on 3 Days Pahinungόd Office 

the chosen date 

4.5 Drafts letter addressed to DepEd 
Pahinungόd Staff 

Supervisor asking permission to Pahinungόd Office 
conduct Tutorial to the requesting None 5 Days and 
school and submits to Office of the Director 
Chancellor for signature. Pahinungόd Office 

4.6 Sends or emails letter to the DepEd 
Program Coordinator 

Supervisor None 3 Days 
Pahinungόd Office 

 

 
 

95



 

4.7 Facilitates logistics, food, registration 
Program Coordinator 

during the tutorial sessions and None 10 Days 
Pahinungόd Office 

evaluation forms 
47 Days, 8 

TOTAL None  
Hours 

 

 
 

96



 

INTERNAL SERVICES 
 

1. Processing of Gurong Pahinungόd Volunteer Application 
The Ugnayan ng Pahinungόd Office wish to recruit, screen, and select qualified Gurong Pahinungόd who can teach full-time in 
public school from the UP Cebu Alumni. 
 

Office of Division UP Cebu Ugnayan ng Pahinungόd 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail UP Cebu Alumni 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. Volunteer Application Form (1 copy) Ugnayan ng Pahinungόd Office 
2. Volunteer Agreement Form (2 copies) 
3. Certification in Professional Education (CPE) enrolment forms (1 copy) 
4. Gurong Pahinungόd Handbook (1 copy) 

FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

BE PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Accomplishes and submits 1. Accepts and reviews duly accomplished 

the following documents: Gurong Pahinungόd application and Pahinungόd Staff 
None 1 Hour 

- Volunteer Application Form agreement form and checks the Pahinungόd Office 
- Volunteer Agreement Form completeness 
- Transcript of Records or 1.1 Conducts initial interview and writes 

True Copy Grades (must letter of endorsement to Pahinungόd 
not have a grade of 5.0 in Director Program Coordinator 

None 1 Day 
more than 2 courses) Pahinungόd Office 

- Certificate of Good Moral 
Character 

2. Waits for approval/ 2. Reviews the endorsement for approval/ Director 
None 1 Day 

disapproval of application disapproval  Pahinungόd Office 

 
 

97



 

3. Receives notice of approval/ 3. Drafts letter addressed to the requesting 
disapproval school re notice of approval/ disapproval Pahinungόd Staff 

and submits letter to the Office of the Pahinungόd Office 
None 3 Days and 

Chancellor for signature 
Director 

Pahinungόd Office 

3.1 Sends letter or email the letter to the Pahinungόd Staff 
School Principal None 3 Hours 

Pahinungόd Office 

4. Signs Memorandum of 4. Prepares memorandum of agreement 
Agreement with UP Cebu and submits draft agreement to the 

Pahinungόd Staff 
(include the length of Legal Office and Office of the None 15 Days 

Pahinungόd Office 
service and commitments of Chancellor for approval and signature 
parties involved) 

4.1 Provides a copy of the memorandum of 
Program Coordinator 

agreement to the Gurong Pahinungόd None 1 Day 
Pahinungόd Office 

for reference  
5. Accomplishes Certification 5. Schedules and coordinates trainings for 

in Professional Education the Gurong Pahinungόd volunteer to Program Coordinator 
None 30 Days 

(CPE) form and enrolls in undergo Pahinungόd Office 
nine (9) units of Education  

TOTAL None 51 Days, 4 Hours  

 
 

98



 

 
2. Processing of Tutorial Service Program Volunteer Application 

The Ugnayan ng Pahinungόd Office wish to recruit, screen, and select qualified Tutorial Service Program tutor volunteer from UP 
Cebu undergraduate students who are willing to impart their knowledge and share their time to students that needs reinforcement 
to the lessons taught in some basic academic subjects. 
 

Office of Division UP Cebu Ugnayan ng Pahinungόd 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail UP Cebu Undergraduate Students 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. Volunteer Application Form (1 copy) Ugnayan ng Pahinungόd Office 
2. Volunteer Agreement Form (2 copies) 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Accomplishes and 1. Accepts and reviews duly None 1 Hour Program Coordinator 

submits the following accomplished volunteer and   Pahinungόd Office 

documents: agreement form and checks the    

- Volunteer Application completeness    

Form 1.1 Conducts initial interview and None 1 Hour Pahinungόd Staff 

- Volunteer Agreement writes letter or emails the   Pahinungόd Office 
 

Form Pahinungόd Director for update  
 

2. Receives notice of 2. Emails or messages through FB None 1 Hour Pahinungόd Staff 
acceptance messenger the interested student Pahinungόd Office 

re notice of acceptance  
3. Undergoes Volunteer 3. Schedules and coordinates None 5 Days Program Coordinator 

Orientation  orientation for the volunteer to   Pahinungόd Office 

undergo    

3.1 Facilitates logistics None 10 Days Pahinungόd Staff 
Pahinungόd Office 

 
 

99



 

4. Undergoes Volunteer 4. Schedules and coordinates with None 5 Days Program Coordinator 

Camp Office of the Student Affairs for   Pahinungόd Office 

the volunteer camp     

 None 10 Days Pahinungόd Staff 

4.1 Facilitates logistics Pahinungόd Office 

TOTAL None 30 Days, 3 Hours  
  

 
 

100



 

3. Processing of Teachers Development Training Program Application  
The Ugnayan ng Pahinungόd accepts request from the UP Cebu faculty to conduct Teachers Development Training to any public 
elementary, high school, and college within Cebu Province and provide specific budget for the training with counterpart from the 
host school. 
 

Office of Division UP Cebu Ugnayan ng Pahinungόd 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail UP Cebu Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. Activity Plan Ugnayan ng Pahinungόd Office 
2. Budget Plan 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Sends message 1. Accepts and reads the message None 1 Hour Pahinungόd Staff 

through email or FB through email or FB messenger or   Pahinungόd Office 

messenger or personal accepts the hardcopy file of the    

visit Pahinungόd Office activity plan upon personal visit of    

to discuss collaboration the UP Cebu faculty    
 

for a Teachers    
 

Development Training      
 1.1 Reviews the activity plan and    

1.1 Submits activity plan proposed budget submitted by the UP   Program Coordinator 
with corresponding Cebu faculty against the Pahinungόd None 1 Day Pahinungόd Office 
budget. LIB and endorses to the Director.  

2. Waits for the approval/ 2. Reviews the activity plan and None 1 Day Director 
disapproval approves/ disapproves the request Pahinungόd Office 

2. Receives notice of 3. Emails or messages through FB None 2 Days Program Coordinator 
approval. messenger the UP Cebu Faculty Pahinungόd Office 

 about the notice of approval/  

disapproval. 

 
 

101



 

3. Notifies school Principal 4. Coordinates with UP Cebu Faculty None 1 Day Program Coordinator 
to organize the teachers and schedules date preferred by   Pahinungόd Office 

who will participate the the faculty    

training and prepares 4.1 Informs the requesting school of None 1 Day Program Coordinator 

the venue the tentative schedule to confirm their   Pahinungόd Office 
 

availability on the chosen date   
 

4.2 Facilitates the logistic, food,   Pahinungόd Staff 
transportation, per diem, certificates, None 10 Days Pahinungod Office 
registration, and evaluation forms for   
the training. 

TOTAL None 15 Days, 1 Hour  
  

 
 

102



 

FEEDBACK AND COMPLAINTS MECHANISM 
 

How to send feedback You may file feedbacks/complaints with our office using the feedback form at 
the Ugnayan ng Pahinungόd Office or directly email the office at 
pahinungod.upc@up.edu.ph.  

How feedbacks are processed The office receives the feedback and sorts. For suggestions, the office 
investigates proactive solutions or reevaluation of protocols. 

1. Reevaluation of process 
2. Corrective action 
3. Organizational improvement 

How to file a complaint You may file feedback/complaints with our office feedback form at the 
Ugnayan ng Pahinungόd Office or directly email the office at 
pahinungod.upc@up.edu.ph attaching the signed formal complaint. 

How complaints are processed The office receives the complaint and directs the processing to proper 
authority. 
For suggestive complaints, the office will look for proactive methods and will 
assess the validity of the complaint. 
For formal complaints, the office shall do the following: 

a. Complaint processing 
b. Complaint investigation 
c. Corrective action 
d. Complaint resolution 
e. Organizational improvement 

Contact Information of Pahinungód/Oblation Corps The number is at: 
(032) 232 8187 (loc 212) 
 
Email at: 
pahinungod.upc@up.edu.ph 

 
  

 
 

103



OFFICE OF THE VICE CHANCELLOR FOR ACADEMIC AFFAIRS (OVCAA) 
 
EXTERNAL SERVICES 
 

1. Endorsement of requests for collaborations, and partnerships 
Endorsement of requests for collaborations, partnerships (with contracts, MOAs/MOUs). 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs 
Classification: Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction: G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail: Contracting Parties 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Letter  Legal Office 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
Submits documents 1. Receives documents None 1 Day Office Staff 
to Legal Office Legal Office 

 2. Reviews the MOA/MOU/ 10 Working Legal Counsel 
contracts Days Legal Office 

 3. Reviews and endorse 2 Working Vice Chancellor for Academic 
Days Affairs 

Office of the Vice  
Chancellor for Academic Affairs 

 4. Submits to OC for action of 1 Day Office Staff 
the Chancellor Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

Academic Affairs 
 

Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

 
Chancellor 

Office of the Chancellor 
TOTAL None 14 Working  

Days 
 
 

104



2. Dialogue or consultation (individual/group) with the VCAA 
Requests for dialogue or consultation (individual/group) with the VCAA. 
 
Office or Division: Office of the Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail: Faculty, Students, Others 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
  

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
Phone call/email or 1.   Sets schedule None 1 Day Office Staff 
walk in Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

Academic Affairs 
 

Vice Chancellor for Academic 
Affairs 

Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
Academic Affairs 

 1.2 Dialogue 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

Academic Affairs 
 

Vice Chancellor for Academic 
Affairs 

Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
Academic Affairs 

TOTAL None 2 Working  
Days 

  

105



INTERNAL SERVICES 
 

1. Endorsement of requests of the colleges related to faculty hiring/renewal and tenure 
Endorsement of requests of the colleges for authority to hire, appointment of new faculty, renewal of appointment, 
tenure, waiver of tenure rule. 

 
Office or Division: Office of the Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs 
Classification: Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction: G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail: Colleges 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Office of the Dean, HRDO 

CLIENT FEES TO PROCESSING 
AGENCY ACTIONS PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

STEPS BE PAID TIME 
Colleges submit 1. HRDO staff/APFC secretary Office Staff 
requests and receives and reviews documents  Human Resource and 

required 7 Working Development Office 

documents to Days  

Human APFC Secretary 
APF Committee 

Resource and 
2. APFC deliberates and acts on the APF Committee 

Development 1 Day 
requests  

Office (HRDO) 
2.1 APFC secretary prepares APFC Secretary 

/Academic 4 Working 
minutes/ summary of actions of the APF Committee 

Personnel and Days 
APFC and submit to OVCAA  

Fellowship None 
Committee 2.2 APFC secretary prepares APFC Secretary 

4 Working 
(APFC) endorsements and supporting APF Committee 

Days 
Secretary documents and submits to OVCAA 

3. OVCAA staff receives and VCAA Office Staff 
reviews the summary of actions, Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

endorsements, and supporting Academic Affairs 
documents 3 Working  

Days Vice Chancellor for Academic 
Affairs 

Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
Academic Affairs 

106



4. OVCAA staff submits documents Office Staff 
to OC for approval/second Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

endorsement Academic Affairs 
 

1 Day 
Office Staff 

 
Office of the Chancellor 

 
Chancellor 

Office of the Chancellor 
TOTAL None 20 Working  

Days 
  

107



2. Endorsement of leaves and travels 
Endorsement of requests for fellowships and study leave (new and renewal), sabbatical leave, sick leave of not 
less than 5 months or 1 semester, foreign travels.  

 
Office or Division: Office of the Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs 
Classification: Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail: Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Office of the Dean, HRDO 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
Colleges submit 1. HRDO staff/APFC secretary Office Staff 
requests and receives and reviews documents  7 Working Human Resource and 

related Development Office 
Days 

documents to  
 APFC Secretary 

Human 
APF Committee 

Resource and 
2. APFC deliberates and acts on APFC Secretary 

Development 1 Day 
the requests  APF Committee 

Office (HRDO) 
2.1 APFC secretary prepares APFC Secretary 

/Academic 4 Working 
minutes/ summary of actions of the APF Committee 

Personnel and Days 
APFC and submits to OVCAA  

Fellowship 
Committee 2.2 APFC secretary prepares first APFC Secretary 

endorsements and supporting None APF Committee 
(APFC)   
Secretary   documents and submits to OVCAA 4 Working  

Days Office Staff 
Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

Academic Affairs 
3. OVCAA receives and reviews the Office Staff 

summary of actions and other Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

documents Academic Affairs 
3 Working 

 
Days 

Vice Chancellor for Academic 
 

Affairs 
Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

Academic Affairs 

108



4. OVCAA staff submits documents Office Staff 
to OC for approval/second Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

endorsement Academic Affairs 
 

1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

 
Chancellor 

Office of the Chancellor 
TOTAL None 20 Working  

Days 
  

109



3. Endorsement for payment/release of UP Cebu Research Grants, Faculty Grants 
Endorsement of requests and preparation of disbursement vouchers and other related documents necessary for 
payment/release of UP Cebu Research Grants, Faculty Grants. 

 
Office or Division: Office of the Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs 
Classification: Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail: Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 CVSC 

FEES 
PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS TO BE PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
TIME 

PAID 
Faculty submits 1. CVSC staff receives documents Office Staff 

1 Day 
requests to Central Central Visayas Studies Center 

Visayas Studies 2. CVSC Director reviews requests Office Staff 

Center (CVSC) and CVSC staff prepares 2 Working Central Visayas Studies Center 

 certifications   Days  
 Director 

Central Visayas Studies Center 
3. CVSC prepares contracts and Office Staff 

forwards to Legal Office for Central Visayas Studies Center 

review and to OVCAA for  

endorsement   Office Staff 
Legal Office 

None 
3 Working  

Office Staff 
Days 

Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
 Academic Affairs 

 
Vice Chancellor for Academic 

Affairs 
Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

Academic Affairs 
4. CVSC requests for the release 2 Working Office Staff 

of Faculty Grant and submits to Days Central Visayas Studies Center 

  

110



OVCAA. OVCAA staff prepares Office Staff 
DV, OBR, etc. Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

Academic Affairs 
 

Vice Chancellor for Academic 
Affairs 

Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
Academic Affairs 

5. VCAA endorses/signs Vice Chancellor for Academic 
certifications, DVs, etc.  Affairs 

1 Day 
Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

Academic Affairs 
6. OVCAA staff forwards to Budget Office Staff 

Office for budget clearance and Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

Budget office processes Academic Affairs 
1 Day 

payment of grants  
Office Staff / Budget Officer 

Budget Office 
TOTAL None 10 Working  

Days 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

111



4. Endorsement of requests related to Grants and International Publication Awards 
Endorsement of requests to avail UP System Research Dissemination Grant, International Publication Award, etc. 

 
Office or Division: Office of the Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs 
Classification: Complex 
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail: Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 CVSC 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
Faculty submits 1. CVSC staff receives documents Office Staff 

1 Day 
requests to Central Central Visayas Studies Center 
Visayas Studies 2. CVSC Director reviews and Office Staff 

Center (CVSC) endorses 3 Working Central Visayas Studies Center 

requests and CVSC staff Days  

submits to OVCAA  Director 
Central Visayas Studies Center 

3. OVCAA staff receives, VCAA Office Staff 
reviews, and endorses requests Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

and OVCAA staff forwards to Academic Affairs 

OC for endorsement and to the None  

Office of the Vice President for Vice Chancellor for Academic 
Affairs 

Academic Affairs for approval     3 Working 
Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

Days 
Academic Affairs 

  
Office Staff 

Office of the Chancellor 
 

Chancellor 
Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 7 Working  
Days 

 
 

112



5. Endorsement of requests for Basic Education Fund (BEF) and Second Endorsements 
Endorsement of requests to avail Basic Education Fund (BEF) and preparation of Second Endorsements. 
 
Office or Division: Office of the Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs 
Classification: Complex 
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail: Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 OCEP 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
Faculty submits 1.  OCEP staff receives Office Staff 
requests documents 1 Day Office of the Continuing 

to Office of the Education and Pahinungod 

Continuing 2.  OCEP Director reviews Office Staff and Coordinator 

Education and and endorses requests and 2 Working Office of the Continuing 

Days Education and Pahinungod 
Pahinungod (OCEP) the OCEP staff submits to 
  OVCAA  

3.  OVCAA receives and Office Staff 
prepares the second Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

endorsement. VCAA reviews Academic Affairs 

and signs second 3 Working  

endorsement None Days Vice Chancellor for Academic 
Affairs 

Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
Academic Affairs 

 4.  OVCAA staff ubmits Office Staff 
documents to OC for approval  Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

Academic Affairs 
 

1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

 
Chancellor 

Office of the Chancellor 
TOTAL None 7 Working  

Days 

113



6. Endorsement for Faculty Development Fund (FDF) 
Endorsement of requests to avail Faculty Development Fund (FDF). 

 
Office or Division: Office of the Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs 
Classification: Complex 
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail: Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Office of the Dean 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
Faculty member 1.  College staff receives 1 Day College Staff 
submits request document  College 

to their respective 2.  Dean reviews and endorses College Staff 
College  the request and the college staff College 

submits to the Budget office for  

funding clearance and forwards to Dean 

OVCAA 3 Working College 
 

Days 
Budget Officer/Staff 

 Budget Office 
 

Office Staff 

None Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
Academic Affairs 

3.  OVCAA staff receives and the Office Staff 
VCAA endorses the request and Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

OVCAA staff forwards to OC for Academic Affairs 

approval  
Vice Chancellor for Academic 

1 Day Affairs 
 Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

Academic Affairs 
 

Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

 

114



Chancellor 
Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 5 Working  
Days 

  

115



7. Endorsement for overload honoraria 
Endorsement of payment for overload honoraria. 

  
Office or Division: Office of the Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs 
Classification: Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction: G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail: Colleges 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Office of the College Secretary 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
College staff of the 4 1.   OVCAA staff receives Forms College Staff 
colleges submit 67 & Faculty Loading (for office College 

Forms 67,  67A, files) 1 Day  

67B/67S,   Office Staff 

Faculty Loading to Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
Academic Affairs 

Office of the Vice 
2.   OVCAA staff receives, 10 Working Office Staff 

Chancellor for 
reviews Forms 67A & 67B/67C  Days Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

Academic Affairs 
 Academic Affairs 

(OVCAA)  
3.   VCAA signs the documents Vice Chancellor for Academic 

  None 

  Affairs 
2 Working Days 

 Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
Academic Affairs 

 
4.   OVCAA staff submits Office Staff 

 
documents to OC for Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

 
signature/approval Academic Affairs 

  
1 Day 

Office Staff 
 

Office of the Chancellor 
 

Chancellor 
Office of the Chancellor 

5.   OVCAA staff receives Office Staff 
signed/approved documents Office of the Chancellor 

1 Day 
from OC   

Office Staff 

116



Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
Academic Affairs 

6.   OVCAA staff prepares and Office Staff 
the VCAA signs the Obligation Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

Request and Status (OBR) Academic Affairs 

respectively (Undergraduate and  

Graduate Programs) and Vice Chancellor for Academic 
2 Working Days Affairs 

OVCAA staff submits all 
Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

documents to Accounting Office  
Academic Affairs 

 
Office Staff 

Accounting Office 
TOTAL None  17 Working  

Days 
 

117



8. Endorsement of API Proposals and requests for realignment of approved Line Item Budget 
for API activities 

Endorsement of API Proposals and requests for realignment of approved Line Item Budget for API activities. 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs 
Classification: Complex 
Type of Transaction: G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail: Colleges, Departments, Programs 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Office of the Dean 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
Requesting offices 1. OVCAA staff receives and Office Staff 
submit to OVCAA VCAA reviews documents  Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

 3 Working Academic Affairs 

  
Days 

Vice Chancellor for Academic 
 Affairs 

Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
Academic Affairs 

2.   VCAA endorses Vice Chancellor for Academic 
2 Working Affairs 

None Days Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
Academic Affairs 

3.   OVCAA staff submits Office Staff 
documents to Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

OC for approval   Academic Affairs 
 

1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

 
Chancellor 

Office of the Chancellor 
TOTAL None 6 Working  

Days 
  

118



9. Approval for readmission due to LOA, PDQ, Delinquent Status, and extension of Waiver of 
MRR 

Approval on behalf of the Chancellor, the students’ requests for readmission due to LOA, PDQ, Delinquent Status, 
and requests for extension of Waiver of MRR. 
 
Office or Division: Office of the Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs 
Classification: Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail: Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Office of the College Secretary 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
Students submit 1. OUR staff and Office Staff 
requests to Office of Admissions Committee Office of the University Registrar 

the University secretary receive and 5 Working Days  

Registrar (OUR) review documents Committee Secretary 
Admissions Committee 

2. Admissions Committee  
7 Working Days 

deliberates and acts on Admissions Committee 
 

the requests 
3. UR submits results to University Registrar 

OVCAA 2 Working Days Office of the University Registrar 
None  

4. OVCAA staff prepares Office Staff 
Notices of Action (NOAs) 1 Working Day Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

Academic Affairs 

5. VCAA reviews and signs Vice Chancellor for Academic 
NOAs Affairs 

1 Working Day 
Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

Academic Affairs 
6. OVCAA staff releases Office Staff 

NOA to students 1 Working Day Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
Academic Affairs 

TOTAL None 17 Working Days  
 

119



 
10. Endorsement of students’ requests for Alternative Class Learning Experience (ACLE) 

and other activities 
Endorsement of students’ requests for Alternative Class Learning Experience (ACLE) and other activities. 

 
Office or Division: Office of the Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail: Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Requesting Party 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
Students submit 1. OVCAA staff reviews and Office Staff 
request  receives request letter 1 Day Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

Academic Affairs 
2. VCAA acts on the requests Vice Chancellor for Academic 

Affairs 
1 Day 

Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
Academic Affairs 

3. OVCAA staff submits to OC for Office Staff 
None 

action of the Chancellor Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
Academic Affairs 

 
1 Day Office Staff 

Office of the Chancellor 
 

Chancellor 
Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 3 Working  
Days 

  

120



11. Endorsement of students’ requests for extension of enrollment 
Endorsement of students’ requests for extension of enrollment. 
 
Office or Division: Office of the Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail: Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Requesting Party 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
Students submit 1. OUR staff and OVCAA staff Office Staff 
requests review and receive request Office of the University 

     letters Registrar 
1 Day  

Office Staff 
Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

Academic Affairs 
2. UR and VCAA review and act University Registrar 

on the requests Office of the University 
Registrar 

 
1 Day 

Vice Chancellor for Academic 
None 

Affairs 
Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

Academic Affairs 
3. OVCAA staff submit to OC for Office Staff 

action of the Chancellor        Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
Academic Affairs 

 
1 Day Office Staff 

Office of the Chancellor 
 

Chancellor 
Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 3 Working  
Days 

121



 
12. Endorsement of student organizations activities 

Endorsement of requests for permission to hold student organizations’ activities. 
   

Office or Division: Office of the Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail: Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Requesting Party 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
Students submit 1. OSA and OVCAA staff review Office Staff 
requests to the and receive request letters Office of Student Affairs 
Office of Student  

1 Day 
Affairs (OSA) Office Staff 

Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
Academic Affairs 

2. OSA Director and VCAA review Director 
and act on the requests Office of Student Affairs 

 
1 Day Vice Chancellor for Academic 

Affairs 
None 

Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
Academic Affairs 

3. OVCAA staff submits to OC for Office Staff 
the action of the Chancellor  Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

Academic Affairs 
 

1 day Office Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 

 
Chancellor 

Office of the Chancellor 
TOTAL None 3 Working  

Days 

122



 
13. Submission of data/reports 
Submission of requested data/reports. 
 
Office or Division: Office of the Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs 
Classification: Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction: G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail: UP System, UP Cebu 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Requesting Office 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
Requesting office 1. OVCAA staff receives and Office Staff 
sends email/ reviews request for data/ Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

Communication, information from other Academic Affairs 
2 Working Days 

Memorandum offices  

 Office Staff 
Other Offices 

2. OVCAA staff gathers and Office Staff 
11 Working 

consolidates data Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
None Days 

Academic Affairs 
3. VCAA checks the Vice Chancellor for Academic 

accuracy of data Affairs 
5 Working Days 

Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
Academic Affairs 

4. OVCAA staff submits Office Staff 
2 Working Days 

data/reports to requesting Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
 

office Academic Affairs 

TOTAL None  20 Working  
Days 

 
 
 
 
 

123



14. Generation of Student Evaluation of Teaching (SET) reports through the Student          
Academic Information System (SAIS) 

Generation and sending of SET reports to the Colleges. 
 

Office or Division: Office of the Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs 
Classification: Complex 
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail: UP Cebu 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 UP System through SAIS 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
Colleges send 1. OVCAA sends request to College Staff & Coordinator 
request to the UP System/SAIS Team (CCAD, CS, CSS, SoM, NSTP) 

OVCAA  

 1 Day Office Staff 
Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

Academic Affairs 
 

2.OVCAA generates reports Office Staff 
None 

for each college and NSTP.  3 Working Days Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
Academic Affairs 

3.OVCAA sends reports to Office Staff 
college deans and NSTP Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

Coordinator. Academic Affairs 
1 Day 

 
Deans & Coordinator 

(CCAD, CS, CSS, SoM, NSTP) 
TOTAL None  5 Working  

Days 
 

124



OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL LINKAGES (OIL)

INTERNAL SERVICES

1. Facilitation of requests for MOA’s of MOU’s
Facilitation of requests for Memorandum of Agreements (MOA) or Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)

Office of Division OIL
Classification Highly Technical
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government/International Partners
Who may avail Contracting Parties
Description OIL assists the faculty member in UP and potential partner abroad in drafting

MOA/MOU between the two parties.
WHERE TO SECURE

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS
1. MOA/MOU Legal Office and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON RESPONSIBLE
BE PAID TIME

1. Submits MOA/MOU 1. OIL Coordinator or any None 1 Hour OIL Coordinator
to VCAA faculty member receives Office of International Linkages

the MOA/MOU from
potential international The Faculty in-Charge who initiates the
partners and submits it MOA/MOU

to the VCAA. Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs

125



Office of the Vice Chancellor for
Academic Affairs

2. Follows up if all the 2. VCAA reviews and 10 Days Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs
points in the endorses the MOA/MOU Office of the Vice Chancellor for
MOA/MOU are agreed Academic Affairs
to by both parties 3. VCAA submits it to the 1 Hour Legal Officer

Legal Office. Legal Office

3. Gets the 4. After the Legal Officer, 1 Day Chancellor
MOA/MOU for evaluates the Office of the Chancellor
signatures MOA/MOU, the VCAA

receives it and endorses Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs
to the OC for action of Office of the Vice Chancellor for
the Chancellor Academic Affairs

OIL Coordinator
Office of International Linkages

The Faculty in-Charge who initiates the
MOA/MOU

TOTAL None 11 Days and 2
Hours

126



2. Facilitation of applications for international mobility of students
Facilitation of applications for Mobility for Vigor and Excellence – University of the Philippines (MOVE UP) students and the
Continuous Operational and Outcomes-Based Partnership for Excellence in Research and Academic Training Enhancement
(COOPERATE)

Office of Division OIL
Classification Highly Technical
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government/International Partners
Who may avail Students and Faculty
Description MOVE UP provides financial support to enable UP undergraduate students to take courses,

undertake sandwich thesis work, or attend a degree-related training in an International Higher
Education Institutions, especially those where UP has exchange agreements.

COOPERATE is a financial support program for graduate students at early thesis or
dissertation or proposal stage, needing to undertake research/creative work at a foreign
university. The UP research adviser may undertake a short-term visit to foreign potential
research/creative work co-adviser/group; for continuing research/creative work collaboration
and publication/productivity.

WHERE TO SECURE
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS

Filled-out application form UP Office of International Linkages System Director
UP Cebu Office of International Linkages Coordinator

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON RESPONSIBLE
BE PAID TIME

127



1. Submits the 1. OIL Coordinator None 1 Day OIL Coordinator
accomplished reviews and endorses Office of International Linkages
application form the application to the
endorsed by the VCAA The Program Adviser/Dean
Program
Adviser/Dean

2. Follows 2. VCAA reviews and 5 Days Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs
up/revises the endorses the Office of the Vice Chancellor for
application, if application to the Office Academic Affairs
needed. of the Chancellor for

action OIL Coordinator
Office of International Linkages

3. The Chancellor 2 Days Chancellor
endorses the Office of the Chancellor
application

3. Submits the 4. OIL Coordinator 4 Hours OIL Coordinator
endorse application assists the applicant, Office of International Linkages
to UP OIL System as needed
through the The Applicant
prescribed platform
3. Receives the 5. The UP OIL System 30 Days The OIL System Committee

result MOVE Office of the International Linkages
UP/COOPERATE System
Committee evaluates
the application and
emails the results to
the applicant, cc: OIL

128



Coordinator, VCAA,
OC.

TOTAL None 38 Days and 4
Hours

3. Facilitation of applications for travel grants to attend international conferences
Facilitation of applications for travel grants to present research/creative work in international conferences

Office of Division OIL
Classification Highly Technical
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government/International Partners
Who may avail Graduate students, Regular faculty, REPS and permanent administrative staff
Description The travel grant for Research/Creative Work Presentation (in-person or online) in

International Conferences provides financial assistance to attend and present in international
conferences, which can include conference fees, travel support (for in-person mode), and
internet subsidy and publication fees (for online mode), etc.

WHERE TO SECURE
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS

Filled-out application form UP Office of International Linkages System Director
UP Cebu Office of International Linkages Coordinator

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON RESPONSIBLE
BE PAID TIME

129



1. Submits the 1. OIL Coordinator None 1 Day OIL Coordinator
accomplished reviews and Office of International Linkages
application form endorses the
endorsed by the application to the The Program Adviser/Dean
Program VCAA
Adviser/Dean

2. Follows up/revises 2. VCAA reviews and None 5 Days Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs
the application, if endorses the Office of the Vice Chancellor for
needed. application to the Academic Affairs

Office of the
Chancellor for action

3. The Chancellor None 2 Days Chancellor
endorses the Office of the Chancellor
application

3. Submits the 4. OIL Coordinator None 2 Hours OIL Coordinator
endorse application assists, as needed Office of International Linkages
to UP OIL System
through the The Applicant
prescribed platform

130



3. Receives the 5. The UP System OIL None 30 Days The OIL System Committee
result Committee evaluates Office of the International Linkages

the application and System
emails the results to
the applicant, cc: OIL OIL Coordinator

Coordinator, VCAA, Office of International Linkages

OC. Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs
Office of the Vice Chancellor for

Academic Affairs

TOTAL None 38 Days and 2
Hours

4. Facilitation of applications for hosting international conferences and lecture series
Facilitation of applications for hosting international conferences and workshops, and special lectures or performances given by
world experts

Office of Division OIL
Classification Highly Technical
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government/International Partners
Who may avail Faculty, REPS and staff

131



Description Hosting of International Conferences and Workshops provides financial support to
enable UP constituent units to host international conferences in line with the
University’s vision and mission, and internationalization agenda.

The World Expert Lecture Series (WELS) provides financial assistance for hosting
world experts to give special lectures or performances in UP. The grant includes
support for travel expenses for face-to-face lectures and resource fees for virtual
lectures, and other operating expenses.

WHERE TO SECURE
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS

The filled-out application form UP Office of International Linkages System Director
UP Cebu Office of International Linkages Coordinator

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON RESPONSIBLE
BE PAID TIME

1. Submits the 1. OIL Coordinator None 1 Day OIL Coordinator
accomplished reviews and Office of International
application form endorses the Linkages
endorsed by the application to the
Program VCAA The Program Adviser/Dean

Adviser/Dean

2. Follows up/revises 2. VCAA reviews and None 5 Days Vice Chancellor for Academic
the application, if endorses the Affairs
needed. application to the Office of the Vice Chancellor

Office of the for Academic Affairs
Chancellor for action

132



3. The Chancellor None 2 Days Chancellor
endorses the Office of the Chancellor
application

3. Submits the 4. OIL Coordinator None 2 Hours OIL Coordinator
endorse application assists the applicant, Office of International
to UP OIL System as needed Linkages
through the
prescribed platform. The Applicant

3. Receives the 5. The UP System OIL None 30 Days The OIL System Committee
result Committee evaluates Office of the International

the application and Linkages System
emails the results to
the applicant, cc: OIL OIL Coordinator

Coordinator, VCAA, Office of International
Linkages

OC.
Vice Chancellor for Academic

Affairs
Office of the Vice Chancellor

for Academic Affairs
TOTAL None 38 Days and 2

Hours

133



OFFICE OF THE UNIVERSITY REGISTRAR (OUR)

ADMISSION
✔ New First Year, Undergraduate

✔ New First Year, Graduate

✔ Transferee

✔ Cross-Registration

OTHER SERVICES
✔ Issuance of UP ID

✔ University Clearance for Students

✔ Request for Official Transcript of Records (OTR)

✔ Request for Certifications, etc.

✔ Issuance of Diploma

✔ Verification and Authentication of Student Records

✔ CHED Billing Report Preparations

HOW TO AVAIL OF THE SERVICES
Office Hours : Monday to Friday 8:00 A.M – 5:00 P.M.

Key Person : University Registrar

Clientele : Students, Faculty, Alumni, Public, Government and Private Entities

EXTERNAL SERVICES

1. Admission – New First Year, Undergraduate

134



The Office of the University Registrar processes all requests for admission into the University.

Office or Division: Office of the University Registrar
Classification: Simple
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen
Who may avail: Incoming first year undergraduate students

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
If UPCAT Qualifier,
UPCAT Admissions Notice, containing ID and PIN; UP Office of Admissions
If UPCAT Appellant,
UP Cebu OUR email confirming admission (through online UP Cebu Office of the University Registrar
submission);

If Certificate of Fine Arts high school graduate, College of Communication, Art, and Design
Certification of Admission to the Fine Arts Program;
If Iskolar ng Bayan grantee, Office of Student Affairs
Admission Notice from the Office of Student Affairs;
If Transferee from other schools, UP Cebu Office of the University Registrar
Approved Application for Transfer (Form 3.1) (1 original);
Medical certificate that student is fit to enroll, bearing the signature UP Cebu Health Services Unit
of the school’s physician (1 original)
2x2 ID picture with name and signature at the back (1 recent, Varied sources
colored, original photo)
Official Secondary Permanent Records or Form 137 from Grade 7 High School of student
to 12 bearing the date of graduation, signature of the principal, with
school seal, and the remark “Copy for UP Cebu” (1 original)
High School Report Card or Form 138 bearing the signature of the High School of student
principal and the remark “Graduated and eligible for admission to
college” (1 original)
Certificate of Good Moral Character bearing the signature of the High School of the student
principal or guidance counselor (1 original)
Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) Birth Certificate (in case name Philippine Statistics Authority
cannot be read on the certificate, attach a copy issued by the Local
Civil Registrar; if there is a difference between the name used in

135



the report card and in the birth certificate, the name on the latter
will be used). Notarized Affidavit of two disinterested persons in
case of discrepancy of name. (1 original,1 photocopy and scanned
copy through online submission)
Accomplished Student Directory, with one recent, colored, passport UP Cebu Office of the University Registrar
photo attached (1 original) http://our.upcebu.edu.ph/
If applying for the Fine Arts Program, UP Cebu College of Communication, Art, and Design – Fine Arts
Talent Test result (1 original) Program
If voluntarily opting out from the Free Higher Education privilege, UP Cebu Office of the University Registrar
Accomplished Voluntary Opt-out Form (1 original) http://our.upcebu.edu.ph/

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING
TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE

1.Submits all the required 1.Receives the required 3-5 minutes
documents. documents and check for

completeness. Window 1 (Angel Kris C. Negro)
1.1 Issues University Window 2 (Lyn G. Desucatan)

Office of the University Registrar
Get one’s University Admission Admission Slip.
Slip.

2.Checks the accuracy and 2.Takes note of accuracy of 5 -10 minutes
completeness of one’s personal information in SAIS.
data and information in the (Camille E. Caputol)
Student Academic Information Office of the University Registrar
System (SAIS).

3.Have one’s photo and signature 3.Takes photo and signature of 5 -10 minutes (Godfrey B. Español)
taken for the School ID. student for the School ID. ITC

4.Have one’s courses enlisted. 4.Enlists courses for the
Get your UP Form 5A. student. Office of the College Secretary of

4.1 Issues UP Form 5A. respective college

5.Accomplishes Student 5.Receives the accomplished
Information Sheet. form. Office of Student Affairs

6.Have one’s scholarship/s, 6.Tags student’s scholarship/s,
privilege/s, and/or grant/s privilege/s, and/or grant/s in Office of Student Affairs
tagged in SAIS. SAIS.

136



6.1 Indicates re-assessment
of fees in Form 5A.

7.For students who are not 7.Accepts payment of tuition ₱1,000/unit tuition
eligible for Free Higher based on Form 5A. + ₱1,711.50 other
Education or voluntarily opting school fees
out from this privilege pays 7.1 Issues Official Form 5 + laboratory and Office of the College Secretary of
tuition and other school fees. eOR (electronic Official computer the respective college
Gets official Form 5 eOR. Receipt). laboratory fees

Cash Office
For students who are eligible None
for Free Higher Education,
goes directly to the next step.

8.Have one’s enrollment 8.Stamp “PROVISIONAL” if
validated. lack entrance credentials.

9.Tags student as “Officially Office of the College Secretary of
Enrolled” and release Form 5 respective college
to student..

TOTAL ₱1,000/unit tuition 3 working days
+ ₱1,711.50 other
school fees
+ laboratory fees

137



2. Admission – New First Year, Graduate
The Office of the University Registrar processes all requests for admission into the University.

Office or Division: Office of the University Registrar
Classification: Simple
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen
Who may avail: Incoming first year graduate students

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
Notice of Qualification for Admission to the Program (NQA) from Respective College (CS, CSS, SoM)
the Graduate Program
(1 original)
Medical certificate that student is fit to enroll, bearing the signature UP Cebu Health Services Unit
of the school’s physician (1 original)
2x2 ID picture with name and signature at the back (1 recent, Various sources
colored, original photo)
Certificate of Transfer Credentials or Honorable Dismissal (original) Previous school of student
Transcript of Records from last school attended with school seal Previous school of student
(for transfer or evaluation purposes) (1 original)
Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) Birth Certificate (in case name Philippine Statistics Authority
cannot be read on the certificate, attach a copy issued by the Local
Civil Registrar; if there is a difference between the name used in
the report card and in the birth certificate, the name on the latter
will be used). Notarized Affidavit of two disinterested persons in
case of discrepancy of name. (1 original,1 photocopy and scanned
copy through online submission)
PSA Marriage Certificate, for married female applicants only Philippine Statistics Authority
(1 photocopy)
Accomplished Student Directory, with one recent, colored, passport UP Cebu Office of the University Registrar
photo attached http://our.upcebu.edu.ph/
(1 original)

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING
TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE

138



1.Submits all the required 1.Receives the required 3-5 minutes
documents. documents and check for

completeness. Window 1 (Angel Kris C. Negro)
Gets one’s University 1.1 Issues University Admission Office of the University Registrar
Admission Slip. Slip.

2.Checks the accuracy and 2.Takes note of accuracy of
completeness of one’s information in SAIS. 5-10 minutes
personal data and information (Camille E. Caputol)
in the Student Academic Office of the University Registrar
Information System (SAIS).

3.Have one’s photo and 3.Takes photo and signature of
signature taken for the School student for the School ID. 5-10 minutes (Godfrey B. Español)
ID. ITC

4.Have one’s courses enlisted. 4.Enlists courses for the student.
Gets UP Form 5A. 4.1 Issues UP Form 5A. Adviser

Of the course/program of
respective college

Office of the College Secretary
of respective college

5.Accomplishes Student 5.Receives the accomplished
Information Sheet. form. Office of Student Affairs

6.Have one’s scholarship/s, 6.Tags student’s scholarship/s,
privilege/s, and/or grant/s privilege/s, and/or grant/s in
tagged in SAIS. SAIS. Office of Student Affairs

6.1 Indicates re-assessment of
fees in Form 5A.

7.Pays tuition and other school 7.Accepts payment of tuition MSCS
fees. based on Form 5A. ₱1,200/unit +

7.1 Issues Official Form 5 eOR ₱1,301.50;
Gets official Form 5 eOR. (electronic Official Receipt). MSES Cash Office

₱600/unit +
₱1,301.50;
M.Ed.

139



₱600/unit +
₱1,201.50;
MBA
₱1,200/unit +
₱1,201.50

8.Have one’s enrollment 8.Stamp “PROVISIONAL” if lack
validated. entrance credentials.

9.Tags student as “Officially Office of the College Secretary
Enrolled” and release Form 5 to of respective college
student.

TOTAL MSCS 3 Working
₱1,200/unit + Days
₱1,301.50;
MSES
₱600/unit +
₱1,301.50;
M.Ed.
₱600/unit +
₱1,201.50;
MBA
₱1,200/unit +
₱1,201.50

* MSCS – Master of Science in Computer Science
MSES – Master of Science in Environmental Science;
M.Ed. – Master of Education
MBA – Master of Business Administration

140



3. Admission – Transferee
The Office of the University Registrar processes all requests for admission into the University.

Office or Division: Office of the University Registrar
Classification: Complex
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen
Who may avail: Incoming transfer students

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
For All Transfer Applicants, Local and Foreign
FORM 3.1 Application for Transfer from Other School(s)/ Other UP UP Cebu Office of the University Registrar
Unit(s) http://our.upcebu.edu.ph/
Medical certificate that student is fit to enroll, bearing the signature UP Cebu Health Services Unit
of the school’s physician
(1 original)
2x2 ID picture with name and signature at the back (1 recent, Varied sources
colored, original photo)
Certificate of Transfer Credentials (CTC) or Honorable Dismissal Previous school of student
(HD) (1 original), to be processed and submitted only after
acceptance into a program
Permit to Transfer (PTT) with sems left if from other UP unit, to be
processed and submitted only after acceptance into a program
Certification of Semesters Left if from SUC outside UP under Free
Higher Education (FHE) subsidy
Transcript of Records from last school attended with remarks for Previous school of student
transfer or evaluation purposes attached to CTC or HD
(1 original)
True Copy of Grades from last UP unit attended attached to PTT (1
original)
Certificate of Good Moral Character bearing the signature of Last school attended
authorized official
(1 original)
Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) Birth Certificate (in case name Philippine Statistics Authority
cannot be read on the certificate, attach a copy issued by the Local

141



Civil Registrar; if there is a difference between the name used in
the report card and in the birth certificate, the name on the latter
will be used). Notarized Affidavit of two disinterested persons in
case of discrepancy of name. (1 original,1 photocopy and scanned
copy through online submission)
PSA Marriage Certificate, for married female applicants only (1 Philippine Statistics Authority
photocopy)
Accomplished Student Directory, with one recent, colored, passport UP Cebu Office of the University Registrar
photo attached (1 original) http://our.upcebu.edu.ph/
If applying for the Fine Arts Program, UP Cebu College of Communication, Art, and Design – Fine Arts
Talent Test result (1 original) Program
Additional requirement like interview and letter of intent may be Respective College (CCAD, CS, CSS, SoM)
required by the College
For Foreign Transfer Applicants only
Biopage of valid passport (1 copy) Applicant
Alien Certificate of Registration (ACR) for 9(f), 9(g), and 47(a)(2) Bureau of Immigration
visa holders (1 copy), upon acceptance into a program
Special Study Permit (1 copy), upon acceptance into a program Bureau of Immigration

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING
TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE

1.Submits all the required 1.Receives the required
documents. documents and checks for 2-5 minutes Window 1 (Angel Kris C. Negro)

completeness. Office of the University Registrar

2.For students who are not 2.Accepts payment. ₱100, for Filipinos
eligible for Free Higher 2.1 Issues official receipt. ₱250, for resident
Education, pays a foreign applicants 10-15 minutes
non-refundable application USD30, for Cash Office
fee. non-resident

foreign applicants
3.Returns to the OUR for the 3.Receives the application and Window 1 (Angel Kris C. Negro)

processing of your processes the request. Office of the University Registrar
application. 3.1 Evaluates the GWA and

units earned of the applicant. 1 working day College offering the
3.2 Forwards the application to course/program of the applicant

142



the concerned college for
deliberation and approval.

4.Accomplishes other 4.Accepts the application and
requirements set by the deliberates based on set criteria.
college such as interview, 4.1 Dean approves or 7 working days
talent test, written or oral disapproves. College (CCAD, CS, CSS, SoM)
examination. 4.2 Returns the application form

to the OUR.
5.Gets one’s Notice of 5. Issues the Notice of Acceptance 1 working day

Acceptance (NOA) or (NOA) or Non-Acceptance to the Window 1 (Angel Kris C. Negro)
Non-Acceptance. applicant. Office of the University Registrar

6.Proceeds with the Admission
process (as with New First Adviser
Years). College of the student

TOTAL ₱100, for Filipinos 9-10 Working
₱250, for resident Days
foreign applicants
USD 30, for
non-resident
foreign applicants

143



4. Cross-Registration and Special Students, Incoming
Cross-registrants are students who enroll in UP Cebu for a specific period of time but are primarily enrolled in another UP
Constituent University or in another institution of higher learning. Such enrolment is subject to the approval of the Deans of the
home and the accepting units/colleges. [UP Code Art. 333−334]
Exchange students are also classified as cross-registrants.

A special student is one who is not earning formal academic credit for his/her work. [UP Code Art. 337c]

Office or Division: Office of the University Registrar
Classification: Simple
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen
Who may avail: Incoming Cross-registrants and Special Students

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
For Cross-registrants from within UP
FORM Request to Cross-Register, with home unit approval Home UP unit
Official copy of grades from the previous semester (1 original) Home UP unit
Completed University Clearance (1 original or 1 photocopy) Home UP unit
Supporting documents for reason/s of cross-registration, e.g. Applicant
medical certificate, adviser’s certification re: remaining
deficiencies for graduating students (1 original)
For Cross-registrants from outside UP or Special Students
FORM 3.5A Application for Cross-Registrants or Special UP Cebu Office of the University Registrar
Students http://our.upcebu.edu.ph/
Passport picture with name and signature at the back (1 recent, Varied sources
colored original photo)
Permit to cross-enroll (1 original) Dean or authorized official of home College or University
Medical certificate that student is fit to enroll, bearing the UP Cebu Health Services Unit
signature of the school’s physician
(1 original)
Official copy of grades from each college attended signed by the Home school of student
Registrar or an authorized representative; or Official Transcript of
Records with remarks “for evaluation purposes only” (1 original)

144



Accomplished Student Directory, with one recent, colored, UP Cebu Office of the University Registrar
passport photo attached (1 original) http://our.upcebu.edu.ph/
Additional Requirements for Filipino Special Students only
Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) Birth Certificate (1 Philippine Statistics Authority
photocopy)
PSA Marriage Certificate, for married female applicants only (1 Philippine Statistics Authority
photocopy)
Additional Requirements for Foreign Cross-Registrants or
Special Students only
Biopage of valid passport (1 copy) Applicant
Alien Certificate of Registration (ACR) for 9(f), 9(g), and 47(a)(2) Bureau of Immigration
visa holders (1 copy), upon acceptance into a program
Special Study Permit (1 copy), upon acceptance into a program Bureau of Immigration
Certification from a reputable bank in the applicant’s country Bank in the applicant’s country
about their capability to finance the travel, educational, personal,
and other expenses that may be incurred in relation to their
studies in the Philippines; or Statement of Funding Support (2
copies).

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING PERSON
TIME RESPONSIBLE

1.Submits all the required 1.Receives the required 5 -10 minutes Window 1 (Vena D.
documents. documents and checks for Tomayao)

completeness. Office of the University
Registrar

2.Pays a non-refundable 2.Accepts payment. Within UP Cash Office
application fee. 2.1 Issues official receipt. ₱40, paid at the home unit

Exchange students with Outside UP
MOA (Memorandum of ₱100, for Filipinos
Agreement) with UP are ₱250, for resident foreign
exempted from payment applicants
of the application fee. US$30, for non-resident

foreign applicants

145



3.Returns to the OUR for 3.Receives the application and 2 working days Window 1
the processing of your process the request. Office of the University
application. 3.1 Evaluates the application. Registrar

3.2 University Registrar
endorses the application. University Registrar
3.3 Forwards the application to Office of the University
the concerned college for Registrar
deliberation and approval. Dean of host college
3.3 Dean of Host College
approves.

4.Get one’s Application for 4. Issues the Application for 1 day Window 1 (Vena D.
Cross-Registrants or Cross-Registrants or Special Tomayao)
Special Students. Students to the applicant. (University Registrar)

Office of the University
Registrar

5.Proceeds with the Educational Development
Registration process. Fund (EDF) for Foreign

Students
Non-Resident
$300 per semester;
$120 for the midyear term
Resident
$150 per semester;
$60 for the midyear term

TOTAL Within UP 3 Working Days
₱40, paid at the home unit

Outside UP
₱100, for Filipinos
₱250, for resident foreign
applicants
US$20, for non-resident
foreign applicants

146



Educational Development
Fund (EDF) for Foreign
Students
Non-Resident
$300 per semester;
$120 for the midyear term
Resident
$150 per semester;
$60 for the midyear term

147



5. Cross-Registration, Outgoing
Cross-registrants are students who enroll in another UP Constituent University or in another institution of higher learning for a
specific period of time but are primarily enrolled in UP Cebu. Such enrolment is subject to the approval of the Deans of the home
and the accepting units/colleges. [UP Code Art. 333−334]
Exchange students are also classified as cross-registrants.

Office or Division: Office of the University Registrar
Classification: Simple
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen
Who may avail: Outgoing cross-registrants

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
FORM Request to Cross-Register UP Cebu Office of the University Registrar

http://our.upcebu.edu.ph/
Official copy of grades from the previous semester (1 original) Home college
Completed University Clearance (1 original) UP Cebu Office of the University Registrar

http://our.upcebu.edu.ph/
Supporting documents for reason/s of cross-registration, e.g. Applicant
medical certificate, adviser’s certification re: remaining deficiencies
for graduating students (1 original)

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO BE PROCESSING
PAID TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE

1.Secures and fills out the
Request to Cross-Register Within the day Student
Form, in two copies.

2.Requests for validation of 1.Validates subjects of student to
subjects to cross-register from be cross-registered. Within the day Program Adviser
your Program Adviser.

3.Submits the duly signed form 2.Dean of the College approves Dean of the College
for action of the Dean and the the request. 2 working days
University Registrar. 3.1 University Registrar signs University Registrar

the request. Office of the University Registrar
For cross-registration outside 3.2 OUR staff tags student in
the UP System, submit the SAIS. Window 4 (Godfrey B. Español)

Office of the University Registrar

148



form for action of the Vice 3.3 For cross-registration
Chancellor for Academic Affairs outside the UP System, Vice Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs
(VCAA). Chancellor for Academic Affairs Office of the Vice Chancellor for

(VCAA) approves. Academic Affairs
4.Upon approval, pays the 3.Accepts payment. ₱40 5-15 minutes

registration fee.
Gets one’s official receipt. 4.1 Issues official receipt.
Exchange students to
Universities with MOA Cash Office
(Memorandum of Agreement)
with UP are exempted from
payment of the registration fee.

5.Submits duly paid form to the 4.Receives cross-registration
host unit for their approval. form and approves the request.
One copy for the host unit and Host Unit
one copy to be returned to the
home unit.

6.Returns the host unit-approved 5.Receives the form, together
form to the OUR, together with with the Form 5. 2 minutes Window 1 (Vena D. Tomayao)
your Form 5, at the end of the Office of the University Registrar
term.

TOTAL ₱40 3 Working Days

149



6. Issuance of UP ID, Student
The Office of the University Registrar issues the Identification Card for all types of students and prints the Identification Card for
other members of the academic community. Processing of ID is by batch of 100.

Office or Division: Office of the University Registrar
Classification: Complex
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen
Who may avail: Students

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
For re-issuance
First ID is issued upon admission.
UP FORM 5 (1 original) UP Cebu Office of the College Secretary
Affidavit of Loss, duly notarized (1 original), if applicable Lawyer

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO PROCESSING
BE PAID TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE

1.Pays the ID Fee (for paying 1.Accepts payment.
students). 1.1 Issues official receipt. ₱130 5-15 minutes Cash Office
Get official receipt.

2.Presents UP Form 5, affidavit of 2.Checks the required
loss (if applicable), and official documents.
receipt (OR) prior to ID 5 minutes Window 2 (Lyn G. Desucatan)

Office of the University Registrar
picture-taking.

3.Have photo and signature taken for 3.Takes photo and signature of
the School ID. student for the School ID. 5-20 minutes ITC

4. Batch editing (per 100) Window 2 (Lyn G. Desucatan)
5. Batch sending to supplier (per 3 - 5 weeks Office of the University Registrar
100)
6. Production of ID 1 - 4 months Supplier

4.Claims School ID, when available. 4.Releases School ID to student. 5 minutes Window 2 (Lyn G. Desucatan)
Office of the University Registrar

TOTAL ₱130 2 - 6 months

150



Paperless University Clearance for Students
A University Clearance is required from students for processing requests related to their exit from the University.

Office or Division: Office of the University Registrar
Classification: Highly Technical
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen
Who may avail: Students

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
( )

\
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO BE PROCESSING

PAID TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE
1. out and submit the University 1.

Clearance online form. one copy.
2.Settle accountabilities (if 2.Approve the clearance, if no Concerned offices

applicable). more accountabilities. 5 –12 working Laboratory, Academic Adviser,
3.Disapprove if with days* Department/Program

accountabilities. (Laboratory), OCS, Financials
None *Assuming no (Accounting, Library, Dorm, etc),

accountabilities. OSA, OUR
3. 4.

4.Receive a copy of your 5.Give a copy of the University
University Clearance Clearance to the student. 1 day Office of the University Registrar

TOTAL None 13 Working Days

151



7. Request for Official Transcript of Records (OTR)
The Transcript of Records is an inventory of the courses taken and grades earned of a student throughout their stay in the
University of the Philippines Cebu, including transferred credits from other schools.

The Transcript of Records is official (with school seal and signature of the University Registrar) and may be issued as requested,
regardless of frequency and number of copies.

Office or Division: Office of the University Registrar
Classification: Highly Technical
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen
Who may avail: Students and Alumni

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
UPC OTR Online Request Form UP Cebu Office of the University Registrar

http://our.upcebu.edu.ph/
Completed University Clearance UP Cebu Office of the University Registrar

http://our.upcebu.edu.ph/
2x2 picture with name and signature at the back Varied sources
(1 recent, colored, original photo)

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING
TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE

1.Secure and fill out the 1.
online request slip. r
(clearance is required)

2.Pay the fee. 2.Accepts payment. Initial payment:
Get the official receipt. 2.1 Issues official receipt. ₱150* - inactive

(undergraduate
students enrolled for
at most 3 semesters)
₱200** - others 15 minutes Cash Office
(undergraduate and
graduate students)

* 3 pages
** 4 pages

152



Miscellaneous:
₱20 - admin cost
₱10 - envelope/set
for hard copy
requests
₱120 - mailing (if
requested)

Additional:
₱50 - per page for
extra pages

3. 3.Receives the required
documents and checks for Window 4 (Jhin C. Caballero)
completeness. Office of the University Registrar
3.1 Processes the transcript of
records of the student. Window 3 & 4 (Jermydel T.
3.2 Checks and verifies the 2 days Omolon & Jhin C. Caballero)

Office of the University Registrar
accuracy and completeness of
the OTR. University Registrar
3.3 University Registrar signs the Office of the University Registrar
OTR.

4.Claims Official Transcript 4.Releases OTR to student or Window 3 & 4 (Jermydel T.
of Records, when alumnus. 15 minutes Omolon & Jhin C. Caballero)
available. Office of the University Registrar

TOTAL 57 Days, 30
Initial payment: Minutes
₱150* - inactive
(undergraduate Including
students enrolled for waiting time
at most 3 semesters) especially

during peak

153



₱200** - others seasons. (Page
(undergraduate and 31
graduate students) https://arta.gov.

ph/wp-content/u
* 3 pages ploads/2020/07/
** 4 pages Reference_B_-_

Citizen_s_Chart
Miscellaneous: er_Handbook_T
₱20 - admin cost emplate_with_In
₱10 - envelope/set structions_-_Ac
for hard copy cepted_Change
requests s.pdf)
₱120 - mailing (if
requested)

Additional:
₱50 - per page for
extra pages

Request for Official Transcript of Records (OTR) qualified for multi-stage processing.

154



8. Request for Certifications
The Office of the University Registrar issues various types of Certifications. These include Certification of:
▪ Enrollment
▪
▪
▪ Candidacy for Graduation/Academic Completion
▪ Graduation/Graduation with Honors
▪ Permit to Transfer
▪ Transfer Credentials (formerly referred to as “Honorable Dismissal”)
▪ English as medium of instruction
▪ Course description
▪ English Translation of Diploma
▪ Non-issuance of ID/Special Order/Diploma
▪ UP grade system or equivalent
▪ Special Certification
▪ Letter of No Objection
▪

Office or Division: Office of the University Registrar
Classification: Complex
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen
Who may avail: Students and Alumni

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
UPC Certification Online Request Form UP Cebu Office of the University Registrar
University Clearance (applicable only for certificates of http://our.upcebu.edu.ph/
graduation and transfer credentials)
Clearance - Accounting (applicable only for letter of no objection)

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING
TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE

1.Secure and fill out the online
request slip.

2.Pay the fee. 1.Accepts payment. ₱50/page
Get official receipt. 2.1 Issues official receipt. 15 minutes Cash Office

155



₱50 for Course
Description
₱100 for CAV

2. Receives the required 7 days
documents and checks
for completeness. Window 4 (Jhin C. Caballero)
2.1 Processes the Office of the University Registrar
certification of the
student. Window 3 & 4 (Jermydel T.
2.2 Checks and verifies Omolon & Jhin C. Caballero)

Office of the University Registrar
the accuracy and
completeness of the University Registrar
certification. Office of the University Registrar
2.3 University Registrar
signs the certification.

3.Claims requested certification, 3.Releases certification to the 15 minutes
when available. student or alumnus. Window 3 & 4 (Jermydel T.

Omolon & Jhin C. CaballeroLyn
G. Desucatan)

Office of the University Registrar
TOTAL 7 Days, 30

₱50/page minutes
₱60 for Certificate of
Graduation
₱50 for Course
Description
₱100 for CAV

156



9. Issuance of Diploma
The Diploma is a legal document that certifies the completion of a degree program. The President, the Secretary of the University,
the Chancellor, and the Dean sign the Diploma.

The ORIGINAL DIPLOMA is issued only once. However, an English translation of the diploma or a certified true copy of the original,
signed by the University Registrar, on behalf of the original signatories, may be requested.

Diploma will be available six (6) months from the date of the commencement exercises. The graduate will be notified when it is
already available.

Office or Division: Office of the University Registrar
Classification: Highly Technical
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen
Who may avail: UP Cebu Graduates

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
Completed University Clearance (1 original) UP Cebu Office of the University Registrar

http://our.upcebu.edu.ph/
Present Valid ID (1 original copy) Applicant

If to be claimed by an authorized person,
Printed Signed Authorization Letter (1 original copy)
Valid ID of Student (1 photocopy)
Valid ID of Authorized Person (1 photocopy)

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO BE PROCESSING
PAID TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE

1.Present a copy of one’s 1.Check the required
University clearance and valid documents. Window 3 & 4 (Jermydel T.
ID(s) and authorization letter, if 5 minutes Omolon & Jhin C. Caballero)
applicable. Office of the University Registrar

None
2.Receive your diploma. 2.Release diploma.

10 minutes Window 3 & 4 (Jermydel T.
Omolon & Jhin C. Caballero)

Office of the University Registrar
TOTAL None

157



15 minutes

158



10. Verification of Student Records
The Office of the University Registrar processes verification of student records.

Office or Division: Office of the University Registrar
Classification: Complex
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen
Who may avail: Students and Alumni

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE

Online request slip
Signed letter of consent by the student whose records are being Student
verified
Valid ID (1)???? Requester
Signed Undertaking by Requesting Agency Requester

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO BE PROCESSING
PAID TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE

1.Submits the filled-up 1.Receives the request. 5 minutes
request slip via email or 1.1 Indicates amount to be paid. Window 2 or 3
through the office. Office of the University Registrar

2.Pays the fee. 2.Accepts payment. ₱50 for CAV*
Gets official receipt. 2.1 Issues official receipt. ₱40/page for 5-15 minutes

authentication Cash Office
₱100/student for
verification

3.Submits the official receipt 3.Processes the request. 5-7 working days Window 2 or 3
(OR) together with the duly 3.1 University Registrar signs the Office of the University Registrar
accomplished request slip. certification.

University Registrar
Office of the University Registrar

4.Claims requested 4.Releases verification and/or
verification and/ or authentication. Window 2
authentication, when Office of the University Registrar
available.

TOTAL ₱50 for CAV*

159



₱40/page for
authentication
₱100/student for
verification

*CAV – Certification, Authentication, and Verification

160



11. Authentication of Student Records
The Office of the University Registrar processes verification of students who attended, and graduates of University of the Philippines
Cebu, and/or of documents submitted by students, whether for employment or for further studies, purportedly issued by our
University.

Office or Division: Office of the University Registrar
Classification: Complex
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen
Who may avail: Students and Alumni

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
Request Slip UP Cebu Office of the University Registrar

http://our.upcebu.edu.ph/
Authorization letter signed by the student whose records are being Student
verified, if applicable
Valid ID (1) Requester

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO BE PROCESSING
PAID TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE

5.Submits the filled-up 5.Receives the request. 5 minutes
request slip via email or 1.1 Indicates amount to be paid. Window 2 or 3
through the office. Office of the University Registrar

6.Pays the fee. 6.Accepts payment. ₱50 for CAV*
Gets official receipt. 2.1 Issues official receipt. ₱40/page for 5-15 minutes

authentication Cash Office
₱100/student for
verification

7.Submits the official receipt 7.Processes the request. 5-7 working days Window 2 or 3
(OR) together with the duly 3.1 University Registrar signs the Office of the University Registrar
accomplished request slip. certification.

University Registrar
Office of the University Registrar

8.Claims requested 8.Releases verification and/or Window 2
verification and/ or authentication. Office of the University Registrar

161



authentication, when
available.

TOTAL ₱50 for CAV*
₱40/page for
authentication
₱100/student for
verification

*CAV – Certification, Authentication, and Verification

162



▪ Certificate of Authentication and Verification (CAV)

12.CHED Billing Report
The Office of the University Registrar prepares reports for submission to CHED (Commission on Higher Education) in compliance
with RA 10931, Universal Access to Quality Tertiary Education Act, and its IRR.

Office or Division: Office of the University Registrar
Classification: Highly Technical
Type of Transaction: G2G – Government to Government
Who may avail: Commission on Higher Education (CHED)

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
First Tranche
FORM 2 Billing Summary (2 copies) Office of the University Registrar
FORM 2 Billing Details (2 copies) Office of the University Registrar
FORM 2A Billing Details (2 copies) Office of the University Registrar
FORM 2B Billing Details (2 copies) Office of the University Registrar
COR Data Elements Report (1 soft copy) Office of the University Registrar
Certification of the UR and Chancellor re: Billing Details (2 copies) Office of the University Registrar
Certification of the UR re: COR Data Elements (2 copies) Office of the University Registrar
Certification of the UR re: Form 5 True and Correct (2 copies) Office of the University Registrar
Form 5 EORs of all students, in pdf Office of the University Registrar
Second Tranche
FORM 2 Billing Summary (2 copies) Office of the University Registrar
FORM 2B Billing Details re: Admission (Medical Fees) (2 copies) Office of the University Registrar
Certification of the Chancellor re: Admission (Medical Fees) (2 Office of the University Registrar
copies)
Medical Certificates of all students, in pdf Office of the University Registrar
FORM 2A Billing Details re: Development Fees (2 copies) Office of the University Registrar

163



FORM 2A-1 Billing Details re: Development Fees (1 soft copy) Office of the University Registrar
FORM 2A-2 Billing Details re: Development Fees (1 soft copy) Office of the University Registrar
Certification of the Chancellor re: Development Fees (2 copies) Office of the University Registrar
Experiential Learning Activity (ELA) Forms and Class Lists, in pdf Office of the University Registrar
FORM 2B Billing Details re: Talent Determination Test Fees (2 Office of the University Registrar
copies)
Certification of the Chancellor re: Talent Determination Test Fees (2 Office of the University Registrar
copies)
Talent Determination Test Application Forms, in pdf Office of the University Registrar
FORM 2B Billing Details re: Transfer Application Fees (2 copies) Office of the University Registrar
Certification of the Chancellor re: Transfer Application Fees (2 Office of the University Registrar
copies)
Application for Transfer Forms, in pdf Office of the University Registrar

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO BE PROCESSING
PAID TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE

1.Requests for CHED Billing 1.Prepares, checks, verifies and None 20 Working OUR Staff
Reports, through the UP submits the CHED Billing Report Days Office of the University Registrar
System. for the collection of tuition and

other school fees, covered by RA Office of the College Secretary of
10931. respective college

Accounting Office

Office of the Chancellor
TOTAL None 20 Working

Days

164



FEEDBACK AND COMPLAINTS MECHANISM
How to send feedback Answer the client feedback form and drop it at the designated drop box in front of the Office of the

University Registrar.

Contact info: +63 (32) 232 8187 loc 120
our.upcebu@up.edu.ph

How feedbacks are processed One of the OUR staff opens the drop box and compiles and records all feedback submitted.

Feedback requiring answers are forwarded to the relevant offices for their response. The answer of
the office is then relayed to the client.

How to file a complaint Answer the client feedback form and drop it at the designated drop box in front of the Office of the
University Registrar.

Complaints may also be filed via email. Make sure to provide the following information:
- Name of person being complained
- Incident
- Evidence

For inquiries and follow-ups:
+63 (32) 232 8187 loc 120
our.upcebu@up.edu.ph

How complaints are processed One of the OUR staff opens the drop box and compiles and records all feedback submitted,
including complaints.

If the complaint is found to have merit, it is forwarded to the Grievance Committee for further
investigation.

165



Contact Information of OUR, Office of the University Registrar:
UP Cebu +63 (32) 232 8187 loc 120

our.upcebu@up.edu.ph

University of the Philippines Cebu:
+63 (32) 232 8187
oc.upcebu@up.edu.ph

166



 

OFFICE OF STUDENT AFFAIRS (OSA) 

Location of Office: Second Floor, Administrative Building, UP Cebu 

Telephone  No.    :  (032) 2328187 local 115 

Email Address      : osa.upcebu@up.edu.ph   or  sts.cebu@up.edu.ph  
Schedule of Availability of Service: Monday to Friday  8:00 a.m. to 5 p.m. without noon break  

EXTERNAL SERVICES 

1. Job Fair for Partner Companies 
Registration for participation in campus job fair. 

 

Office of Division Office of Student Affairs 

Classification Highly Technical 

Type of Transaction G2B – Government of Business 

Who may avail Companies 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Invitation letter and registration form ● Office of Student Affairs 

● Official Receipt photocopy ● Cash Office 

● Business Permit  

● SEC Registration 

167



● Company Profile 

● Job Vacancies (Online/Posters) 
FEES TO BE PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
PAID TIME 

1. Inquires Job Fair 1. Sends invitation letters and None 1 day Guidance Service Specialist 
Schedule registration forms to companies (GSS) In Charge 

for the Job Fair. ● C. Olita 

2. Pays Job Fair 2. Process payment and issue ₱4,000 10 minutes Cashier 
registration fee at the official receipts  ● Gleah Kho 
cashier’s office.  

3. Submits registration form 2. Accepts and confirms the   Guidance Service Specialist 
and other required company's  participation. None 30 minutes ● C. Olita 
documents   

 

    Guidance Services 
 4. Prepares and set-up a   Specialist 
4. Inquires location of the designated area at the venue. 2 hours ● CCAD - E. Torrevillas-

None 
venue   Lauglaug 

● COS - A. Maglasang 
● CSS - J. Pelonio 
● SOM - C. Olita 

5. Presents company 5.1. Facilitates the attendance of   GSS In Charge 
profile  to the students the students during the   ● C. Olita 

presentation of the company  
None  

profile 3 hours  Admin. Aide 
 ● K. Dizon 

5.2 Provides sound system and  

logistical needs like audio visual CMO In-charge 

equipments to partner company ● J. Zapanta 

168



6. Conduct job interviews / 6.Facilitates reservation of venue None 5 hours Partner Companies in 
job testing for students. for interview and testing   collaboration with  

Guidance Services 
 

Specialist 
  

● CCAD - E. Torrevillas-
Lauglaug 

● COS - A. Maglasang 
● CSS - J. Pelonio 
● SOM - C. Olita 

TOTAL ₱4,000 1 day, 10 hours  
and 40 minutes 

 

INTERNAL SERVICES 

1. Guidance and Counseling 
Request for a counseling appointment. 

 

Office of Division Office of Student Affairs 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Bona fide UP students (newly admitted, enrolled, or continuing undergraduate and graduate students) 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● OSA Form No. 14 – Referral Slip ● Office of Student Affairs 

● OSA Form No. 13 – Call Slip ● College Secretary 

● OSA Form No. 11 – Individual Counseling Form  

169



● OSA Form No. 12 – Group Counseling Form  

● Re-admission Form & Extension of MRR 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 

1.1. Submits referrals 1.1.A. Accepts referral slips     
from the faculty and/ or re-admission forms to   Guidance Services Specialist 
members, admin staff, schedule appointments or   

 
parents, friends and counseling sessions.  ●  CCAD - E. Torrevillas-
classmates (in-person 1.1.B.  Issue the Call Slip to the   Lauglaug 
/ online) student after receiving.  None 5 minutes ●  COS - A. Maglasang 

   ●  CSS - J. Pelonio 
   ●  SOM - C. Olita 

   
1.2. Give readmission 1.2. Receive the readmission  

form signed by the form. 
Academic Program  
Coordinator  

  
1.3. Walk-in to the office 1.3. Checks available GSS. 

2. Signs in the Client 2. Give the Logbook to the  None 3 minutes Admin. Aide  
Logbook in the office. client.  ● K. Dizon 

3. Presents the call slip, 3. Determine whether the   Admin. Aide  
the re-admission slips if student can be attended to  None  ● K. Dizon 
referred. by the assigned by the 3 minutes 
 Guidance Services  

Specialist, through online or 
in-person 

4. Proceeds to the 4. Explains Informed Consent   Guidance Services Specialist  
counseling session and/ and  conducts counseling  None 1 hour  

170



or signs the Informed sessions and records on  ● CCAD - E. Torrevillas-
Consent individual cumulative folders Lauglaug 
 or counseling reports. ● COS - A. Maglasang 

● CSS - J. Pelonio 
● SOM - C. Olita 

     

5. Agrees on the follow 5.1.Recommends for follow up   Guidance Services Specialist 

up counseling session. counseling sessions based on 3 minutes  
None 

the professional assessment.  ●  CCAD - E. Torrevillas-
Lauglaug 

 
●  COS - A. Maglasang 

5.2.Sets a schedule for the ●  CSS - J. Pelonio 
next session. ●  SOM - C. Olita 

     

6.  Submits the re- 6. Accomplishes   Guidance Services Specialist 

admission form together acknowledgement form and   
 

with the counselor’s send it to the faculty who made  ●  CCAD - E. Torrevillas-
None 

certification to the the referral through email, or 5 minutes Lauglaug 

Admissions Committee the certification will be attached  ●  COS - A. Maglasang 

(for those who are to the readmission form for ●  CSS - J. Pelonio 

referred). those who are referred by the ●  SOM - C. Olita 

 Admissions Committee.  

    Guidance Services Specialist 

7. Attends the follow-up 7. Accommodates the    

counseling session.  scheduled follow-up session of  ●  CCAD - E. Torrevillas-
None 

the student 1 hour Lauglaug 
 

 ●  COS - A. Maglasang 
●  CSS - J. Pelonio 
●  SOM - C. Olita 

 

171



    Guidance Services Specialist 

8. Agrees on the referral 8.Refers student to a specialist None   

instruction  mental health professional  5 minutes ●  CCAD - E. Torrevillas-
Lauglaug 

●  COS - A. Maglasang 
●  CSS - J. Pelonio 
●  SOM - C. Olita 

TOTAL NA 2 hours and 24  
minutes 

  2.  Psychological Testing  
Request for the administration of tests and submission of psychometric reports for students. 

 

Office of Division Office of Student Affairs 

Classification Highly Technical 

Type of Transaction G2C/G2B – Government of Citizen/Business 

Who may avail Bona fide UP Students  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Letter request for group testing  Office of Student Affairs 
Psychological Testing Material and Answer Sheet 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 

    Guidance Services 

1. Submits letter request and 1. Accepts letter and schedules None 30 minutes Specialist 

confirms on notice of testing notice of testing appointment.  

appointment. (Group Testing)  ●  CCAD - E. Torrevillas-
Lauglaug 

●  COS - A. Maglasang 
●  CSS - J. Pelonio 

172



●  SOM - C. Olita 
2. Inquires availability of the 2. Presents the available   Guidance Services 

Psychological Testing Psychological Testing Services  None 15 minutes Specialist 
Service (Individual  
Testing) ● CCAD - E. Torrevillas-

Lauglaug 
● COS - A. Maglasang 
● CSS - J. Pelonio 
● SOM - C. Olita 

3.Takes the Psychological  3.Administers Psychological Test.   Guidance Services 
Test.   Specialist 

  
None 1 hour and  

● CCAD - E. Torrevillas-
30 minutes Lauglaug 

● COS - A. Maglasang 
● CSS - J. Pelonio 
● SOM - C. Olita  

 
4. Receives the 4. Interprets the  psychological   Guidance Services 
Psychological Test Results  profile and/or psychometric report. None Individual Test Specialist 

5 days  
 ● CCAD - E. Torrevillas-

Group Test Lauglaug 
10 days ● COS - A. Maglasang 

● CSS - J. Pelonio 
● SOM - C. Olita  

TOTAL NA 15 days, 2 hours  
and 15 minutes 

 

 

173



3. Career Guidance Service 

Informing students for career talks or job preparation symposium. 
 

Office of Division Office of Student Affairs 

Classification Highly Technical 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Bona fide UP Students (High School and Undergraduate) 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

   

● Needs Assessment Survey Results Office of Student Affairs 

● Filled out Student Cumulative Form No. 1 

● Exit Interview Form (for the Graduating Students) 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 

    Guidance Services 
1. Informs students about 1.Consults the student   Specialist 

the schedule of the career representatives and/or faculty   
None 

talk/ job preparation adviser for the schedule of the job 30 minutes ● CCAD - E. Torrevillas-
symposium.  preparation symposium.  Lauglaug 

● COS - A. Maglasang 
● CSS - J. Pelonio 
● SOM - C. Olita  

 

 

2. Suggests resource 2. Sets the date and arranges a    OSA Director 
speakers / company for venue for the Career Talk or Job ● A. Macasil 

174



the career talk/ or job Preparation symposium with  the None 10 days Guidance Service 
preparation symposium. resource persons/companies. Specialist  
 ● C. Olita 

3. Attends the career talk/job 3.Facilitates the career talk / job   OSA Director 
preparation symposium. preparation symposium activity None 1 day ● A. Macasil 

 Guidance Service 
Specialist  

● C. Olita 

TOTAL NA 11 days and 30  
minutes 

 

4.  Student Inventory Service for Undergraduate & Graduate Students 
Filling out of cumulative folders by the student to record relevant information  

 

Office of Division Office of Student Affairs 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

 Office of Student Affairs 
● Cumulative Folder/ or Cumulative OSA Form 1 – 

Undergraduate/Graduate Students 
FEES TO BE PERSON 

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME 
PAID RESPONSIBLE 

1. Fills out the cumulative 1. Give out and collect filled in None 30 minutes Admin Aide 
folder indicating all the cumulative folder(s). ●  K. Dizon 

175



necessary information.   In collaboration with 
Attach a recent 2x2 photo. Guidance Services 

Specialist 

● CCAD - E. 
Torrevillas-Lauglaug 

● COS - A. 
Maglasang 

● CSS - J. Pelonio 
● SOM - C. Olita 
 

TOTAL NA 30 minutes  

5. Information Services 
Help students get a wide range of information from diverse sources, discover more possibilities and have informed choices on their 
college life.  

Office of Division Office of Student Affairs 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

-Needs Assessment Survey Results  Office of Student Affairs 

- Publication Materials 

-Letter Request 

-Activity Evaluation Form 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

A-Group Guidance Sessions ( e.g. Study Habits, Time Management, Goal Setting,  Personality Development Topics, etc.) 

176



1.Inquires schedules of 1. Post announcements and   Guidance Services 
activities other publication materials None 15 minutes Specialist 

both in the OSA official  
  

Facebook page and through ● CCAD - E. 
the school bulletins.  Torrevillas-Lauglaug 

● COS - A. Maglasang 
● CSS - J. Pelonio 
● SOM - C. Olita  
 

2. Attends the activity 2.1. Provides needed supplies   Guidance Services 
and materials in the activity   Specialist 
  

  
2.2. Secures students ● CCAD - E. 
participation in the attendance None 2 hours Torrevillas-Lauglaug 
form  ● COS - A. Maglasang 
 ● CSS - J. Pelonio 
2.3.Facilitates the Guidance ● SOM - C. Olita  
Session  
 
2.4. Prepares the Evaluation 
Form 

   Guidance Services 
3. Fills out the evaluation form 3. Provides an evaluation form to 

None 15 minutes Specialist 
be collected once accomplished  
by the participants.  ● CCAD - E. 

Torrevillas-Lauglaug 
 ● COS - A. Maglasang 

● CSS - J. Pelonio 
● SOM - C. Olita 

   2 hours and 30  
Total 

NA minutes  
 

177



B. Information Drive (e.g. Program Announcements, Off Campus Invitations, Job Vacancies, etc.) 
1. Sends  letter of request 1. Replies for confirmation of   Admin. Aide 

to disseminate client’s request None 1 day ● K. Dizon 
program/event  
announcements  OSA Director 

● A. Macasil 
2. Submits posting 2.1.  Accepts and approves   Guidance Services 

materials for review and the posting material   Specialist 
secure approval stamp  

2.2. Posts publicity materials None 1 hour 
● CCAD - E. 

in the official OSA Torrevillas-Lauglaug 
Facebook Page and ● COS - A. Maglasang 
school bulletins ● CSS - J. Pelonio 

● SOM - C. Olita 
 
Admin. Aide 
● K. Dizon 

 
 Total NA 1 day and 1 hour  

C. Community Service Program (e.g. Wellness Program, Recreation and Leisure Activities, Community Extension Work, etc.) 
● Fills out the online pre- 1.Provides pre-registration link /   Admin. Aide 

registration form  form to possible participants  None 15 minutes ● K. Dizon 

 

● Attends the activity  2.1. Secures attendance of the   Guidance Services 
participants None 2 hours Specialist 

● CCAD - E. 
2.2. Facilitates the activity  Torrevillas-Lauglaug 

● COS - A. Maglasang 
● CSS - J. Pelonio 
● SOM - C. Olita 

178



● Fills out the evaluation   Admin. Aide 
form 3. Provides an evaluation form 

  ● K. Dizon 
(google form/physical copy) to be 
collected once accomplished by None 15 minutes 

the participants.   

Total NA 2 hours and 30  
minutes 

 

6. Request for Certifications 
Request a certificate of good moral character or any other certificates. 

 

Office of Division Office of Student Affairs 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Students, Alumni, Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● OSA Form No. 4 – Request Slip for Certification of Good ● Office of Student Affairs 
Moral Character, etc.  

● Official Receipt (OR) ● Cash Office 

PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID 

TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Submits filled out request 1. Accepts request slip. ₱40 per certificate 3 minutes Admin. Aide 
slips (online or in person). (fee is waived for  ● K. Dizon 

 faculty and staff)  

179



2. Have the request slip 2. Approve request slip.  5 minutes Guidance Services 
approved by the Guidance    Specialist  
Services Specialist or OSA 

None ● CCAD - E. 
Director. Torrevillas-Lauglaug 

 
● COS - A. Maglasang 
● CSS - J. Pelonio 
● SOM - C. Olita 
  

OSA Director 

● A. Macasil 

     

3. Pays fee at the Cash 3. Accept payment and give OR. None 10 minutes Cashier 
Office.  ● G. Kho 

  

4. Presents OR and submits a 4. Accept OR and request slip. None 3 minutes Admin. Aide 
request slip. ● K. Dizon 

 

 5. Prepare requested None 1 day Admin. Aide 
certification and have it signed ● K. Dizon 
by authorized personnel. 

5. Claims certification, upon 6. Give the requested None 3 minutes Admin. Aide 
presentation of OR. certification upon presentation ● K. Dizon 

of client’s OR.  
TOTAL ₱40 per certificate 1 day and 24  

minutes 

 

 

7. Request for Clearance (Transferees and Graduates) 
Request to be cleared from the Office of Student Affairs to transfer out or because a student has graduated. 

180



 

Office of Division Office of Student Affairs 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Student 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● College Secretary of each College 
● University Clearance Form 

● Office of Student Affairs 
● Cumulative Folder/Form and Exit Interview Form – 

Undergraduate/Graduate 

● Paid accountabilities such as Kadaganan fund loan, Student 
org accountabilities, etc. 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Submits the University 1. Accepts Clearance Form and None 15 minutes Admin. Aide 
clearance form. record in the logbook.  ● K. Dizon 

2. Hands in cumulative folder 2. Accepts Cumulative folder and None 15 minutes Guidance Services 
and undergo exit interview give exit interview (face to face  Specialist 
(face to face or online) or online) ● CCAD - E. 

Torrevillas-Lauglaug 
● COS - A. Maglasang 
● CSS - J. Pelonio 
● SOM - C. Olita 

3. Have clearance signed by 3. Signs Clearance None 1 day Guidance Services 
a Guidance Services Specialist  
Specialist or OSA Director. ● CCAD - E. 

Torrevillas-Lauglaug 
● COS - A. Maglasang 

181



● CSS - J. Pelonio 
● SOM - C. Olita 
 
OSA Director 
● A. Macasil 

TOTAL NA 1 day and 30  
minutes 

 

8. Request for Clearance (Readmission and Leave Of Absence) 
Request to be cleared from the Office of Student Affairs for readmission or leave of absence.  

 

Office of Division Office of Student Affairs 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● College Secretary Office 
● University Clearance Form 

● Office of Student Affairs 
● Cumulative Folder/OSA Form 1 –Undergraduate/Graduate         

 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 

1. Shows University Clearance 1. Checks the University None 30 minutes Admin. Aide 
Form. Clearance Form.  ● K. Dizon 

 

2. Submits the completed 2. Receives the client’s None 1 hour Guidance Services 
cumulative folder/form  and cumulative folder and  Specialist  

182



undergo individual conducts the counseling ● CCAD - E. Torrevillas-
counseling. session.  Lauglaug 

 ● COS - A. Maglasang 
● CSS - J. Pelonio 
● SOM - C. Olita 

3. Secures clearance signed 3. Signs the University None 1 day Guidance Services 
by a Guidance Services Clearance Form.  Specialist 
Specialist or OSA Director. ● CCAD - E. Torrevillas-

Lauglaug 
● COS - A. Maglasang 
● CSS - J. Pelonio 
● SOM - C. Olita 
 

OSA Director 

● A.Macasil 

 

TOTAL NA 1 day, 1 hour  
and 30 minutes 

 

9. Student Learning Assistance System (SLAS) Online Application  
Application for stipend and learning assistance 

Office of Division Office of Student Affairs 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail 1. Bonafide students of UP. These include: 
Filipino undergraduate students including those enrolled in law and medicine who had been 

183



issued UP- mail accounts 
2. Students in need of learning assistance from UP. Applicants would include: 

Students applying for financial assistance 
Students who wish to avail gadgets, internet connection and similar support services (e.g., 
tutorial services, assistive services) 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

UP mail account (up.edu.ph) slasonline.up.edu.ph 

FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

BE PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Log in at slasonline.up.edu.ph 1. Prepares pubmat and  10 minutes Junior Scholarship 
during the application period announces the opening of the   Affairs Officer 
using your UP mail account. SLAS online schedule of 

None ● M. Mante 
application, appeals, and 

 
results at OSA FB page. 

Admin Asst. 

● S. Pleños  

 

2. Expresses intent to apply and    Junior Scholarship 
agrees to the terms and   Affairs Officer 
conditions. 

None 3 minutes  ● M. Mante 

 

Admin Asst. 

● S. Pleños  

3. Accomplishes completely the   30 minutes  
Student Profile, Household 
Characteristics questionnaire, 
and Household Income form. 

184



4. Reviews all entries then   10 minutes  
confirm submission 

5. Waits for SLAS results.  2.Generates SLAS application  1 day after the Junior Scholarship 
results. application period  Affairs Officer 

● M. Mante 

 

Admin Asst. 

● S. Pleños  

6. Accesses results by logging in 3. Prepares pubmat and announces  10 minutes Junior Scholarship 
at slasonline.up.edu.ph.  the availability of results at OSA FB Affairs Officer 

Page. ● M. Mante 

 

Admin Asst. 

S. Pleños   

TOTAL None 2 days and 3  
minutes 

 

10.  Student Learning Assistance System (SLAS) Online Application Appeals 
Appealing for the initial result of a student’s application for stipend and learning assistance. 

 

Office of Division Office of Student Affairs 

Classification Highly Technical 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

185



● Pertinent documents to support your appeal ● Appropriate Agencies  

● Interview Form ● Office of Student Affairs 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Inquires on the schedule of 1. Provides information on None 5 minutes Junior Scholarship 
appeal and on its process. the schedule and its Affairs Officer 

process. ● M. Mante 

 

Admin Asst. 

● S. Pleños  

2.Visits slasonline.up.edu.ph and   5 minutes  
log in using your UP mail account  
during the appeal schedule. 
3. Indicates consent with the   5 minutes 
terms and conditions of SLAS.  

4.Fills out the SLAS Appeal   20 minutes 
questionnaire.  

5.Indicates permanent address,   10 minutes 
vicinity map, and landmarks  
near home. 

 

186



6.Saves appeal, review entries, 2.Generates / extracts appeal  10 minutes Junior Scholarship 
and confirm submission. application form from the SLAS Affairs Officer 

online portal. ● M. Mante 

 

Admin Asst. 

● S. Pleños  

7. Wait for further instructions of 3.Emails students for the list of  5 minutes Admin Asst. 
the appeal process supporting documents to be ● S. Pleños  

submitted. 

8.Complies with the required 4. Receives and collates  5 minutes Admin Asst. 
documents and submits supporting documents submitted ● S. Pleños  
supporting documents by the students and uploads to 

the google drive 

 5.Emails the students for the  5 minutes Admin Asst. 
schedule of interview ● S. Pleños  

9. Visits OSA  for the preferred 6. Accommodates the students of  5 minutes Admin Asst. 
schedule of interview their preferred schedule of ● S. Pleños  

interview 

 7.Prints appeals generated /  3 minutes Admin Asst. 
extracted. ● S. Pleños  

10. Undergoes interview 8.Conducts an interview.  1 hour Junior Scholarship 
Affairs Officer 

● M. Mante 

 

Admin Asst. 

● S. Pleños  

 

187



OSA Director 

●  A. Macasil 

GSS 

● E.Torrevillas-Lauglaug 

11. Waits for the SLAS appeal 9.Prepares the interview report.  2 days Junior Scholarship 
results. Affairs Officer 

● M. Mante 

 

Admin Asst. 

● S. Pleños  

 

OSA Director 

●  A. Macasil 

GSS 
● E.Torrevillas-Lauglaug 

 10. Sets meeting with the  5 minutes  Junior Scholarship 
CCSFA.  Affairs Officer 

● M. Mante 

 11. CCSFA deliberates appeals.  20 days CCSFA 

 (15-20 days after 
the appeal period) 

 

 12.Prepares summary of results.  20 minutes Junior Scholarship 
Affairs Officer 

● M. Mante 

188



 13.Encodes results at SLAS  5 minutes Junior Scholarship 
online portal. Affairs Officer 

● M. Mante 

 

12.Checks for the results. Results 14.Prepares pubmat and  10 minutes Junior Scholarship 
can be accessed by logging in announces the availability of Affairs Officer 
using your UP mail account at appeal results at OSA FB ● M. Mante 
slasonline.up.edu.ph  page. 

 

Admin Asst. 

● S. Pleños  

TOTAL None 22 days, 2 hrs, 38  
mins 

 

 

11. Request for Transfer of Campus (SLAS Online Application) 
Transfer of campus for students enrolled already in another campus in order for them to access the SLAS online portal. 

Office of Division Office of Student Affairs 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Undergraduate Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS  WHERE TO SECURE 

Form 5 or ID  Office of the University Registrar or College 
Secretary 

FEES TO PROCESSIN PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION  

BE PAID G TIME RESPONSIBLE 

189



1. Send an email 1. Receives email request  None 5 minutes Junior Scholarship 
request to  and instructs student to  Affairs Officer 
sts.upcebu@up.ed send Form 5 and school ● M. Mante 
u.ph. ID. 

 

Admin Asst. 

● S. Pleños  

2. Sends copies of  2. Checks the veracity of the   5 minutes Junior Scholarship 
Form 5 and school submitted documents.  Affairs Officer 
ID.  ● M. Mante 

 
 

 
Admin Asst. 

● S. Pleños  

 3. Change the campus and   3 minutes  
the program of the 
student at the SLAS 
online portal.  

4. Receives email 4. Informs the student    3 minutes Junior Scholarship 
notification for the through email that his/her Affairs Officer 
change of his/her request has been ● M. Mante 
new campus and accommodated already. 

 
degree program. 

Admin Asst. 

● S. Pleños  

TOTAL  None 16 Minutes  

12. Release of Stipend for FDS Grantees 
Processing of the release of stipends to support the basic needs of poor students and help them continue their education. 

 

190



Office of Division Office of Student Affairs 

Classification Complex 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail FDS Grantees 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Form 5, Official Copy of Grades, Certifications (as needed)  Office of Student Affairs 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Submit a photocopy of your 1. Accept & check Form 5 and None 5 minutes Admin Asst. 
current Form 5 and official official copy of grades.  ● S. Pleños  
copy of grades from last 
semester attended. 

2. Wait for announcement on 2. Verify if qualified & officially  5 minutes Admin Asst. 
the schedule of release. enrolled.  ● S. Pleños  

 
 

 3.Process the stipend. *  2 days Admin Asst. 
  ● S. Pleños  
* OSA no longer has control after 
this step, but we usually advise 
students that it will take 10 working 
days. 

3. Claim stipend through ATM   4 days  
cash cards.  

TOTAL None 6 days and 10  
minutes 

191



 

13. Scholarship Application for Students 
Application for students interested in applying for scholarships. 

 

Office of Division Office of Student Affairs 

Classification Highly Technical 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Completely filled-out application form     ● OSA 
● Registration Form 5 ● OUR 
● Copy of grades/TCG ● OUR 
● Certificate of Good Moral Character ● OSA 
●  ITR/Certificate of BIR Exemption/Affidavit of Source of Income ● Parents/BIR/Barangay 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

 1. Prepares pubmat and None 30 minutes   
announces the opening of the   
scholarship at OSA FB page.  

1. Inquires availability of 2. Provides information on the  5 minutes  
Scholarship openings & availability of scholarships.   
secures Application Form,  Junior Scholarship 
once qualified. Affairs Officer 

2. Submits filled out 3. Accepts Scholarship Application  10 minutes ● M. Mante 
Application Form with Form & checks the 

 
supporting documents & completeness of it together with 
undergoes screening. the requirements.  

192



 4. Screens and interviews the  20 minutes  

 applicant.    
  

 
5. Prepares the summary of list of 30 minutes  

 applicants.  
   

 6. Sets a meeting with the UP 20 minutes 

Cebu Committee on  
 

Scholarships and Financial 
 Assistance (CCSFA) and 
 reserves for the venue.  

3. Receives notice of schedule 7. Informs the applicants of the  5 minutes  
of meeting with the donor. scheduled interview / 

deliberation. 
 

4. Undergoes interview           8. Interviews and/or deliberates for  17 days after the Donor and/or CCSFA 
with donor / Scholarship the final selection of qualified application 
Committee. applicants. period (20 mins. 

per applicant) 

5. Waits for the results of the 9. Prepares the final list of qualified  30 minutes  
scholarship application. applicants & the Notice of Award.  

6. Receives Notice of Award, if 10. Provides Notice of Award to  1 day afer the Junior Scholarship 

qualified or Notice of qualified applicants. release of results Affairs Officer 

Scholarship Application  ● M. Mante 
Results if did not qualify.  

TOTAL None 18 working days,  
2 hrs and 30 
minutes 

 

193



14. Renewal of Scholarship for Students 
Application for the renewal of a student’s scholarship. 

 

Office of Division Office of Student Affairs 

Classification Highly Technical 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

TCG, Form 5, Certification of Good Moral Character Certification  OUR, OSA 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Submits photocopy of 1. Accepts True copy of Grades None 1 minute Junior Scholarship 
current Form 5 and True and Form 5 (Good Moral  Affairs Officer 
Copy of Grades of last Character Certification). ● M. Mante 
semester attended. 

 
(including Good Moral 
Character Certification for 
some scholars). 

 2. Checks and evaluates  5 minutes Junior Scholarship 
documents submitted.   Affairs Officer 

3. Prepares a summary report of 1 hr ● M. Mante 
the academic status of  

 
scholars.  

4. Submits report and  
10 minutes 

requirements to scholarship 
donors. 

194



 5. Evaluates the submitted  1 hr Donor / 
documents. Representatives 

2. Receives notice of 6. Receives feedback from the  15 days after Junior Scholarship 
scholarship status. donors on scholarship status receipt of academic Affairs Officer 

 of the scholars. report and ● M. Mante 
  requirements 

 
 

 7. Informs students if their  5 minutes Junior Scholarship 
scholarship is renewed / Affairs Officer 
continued. ● M. Mante 

 
TOTAL None 15 working days;  

2 hrs and 21 
minutes 

 
 

15. Release of Allowances for Scholars 
Processing for release of scholar’s allowance. 

 

Office of Division Office of Student Affairs 

Classification Highly Technical 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Form 5, Official Copy of Grades ● OUR 

195



● Letter of Award, Receipt of Remittance/O.R. ● OSA 

● ID (in checks), ATM (in cash cards) ● OUR, Landbank 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Once qualified and funding 1. Receives and prints the deposit None 5 minutes Junior Scholarship 
is already available, waits slip from donors.  Affairs Officer 
for an announcement on the ● M. Mante 
schedule of release. 

 

 2. Presents the deposit slip to the  5 minutes Junior Scholarship 

 Cash Office for verification.  Affairs Officer 
  

 ● M. Mante 
  

  
  

 
   

Ma. Theresa Barcena 
 1-2 days after 

  
3. Cash Office issues Official verification with 

  
Receipt  the bank 

 
   

 
   

Junior Scholarship 
 30 minutes 

2. Receives notice on the  Affairs Officer 
4. Prepares DV, payroll, etc.,  

availability of stipend. processed through UIS and  ● M. Mante 
forwards to Budget Office *   

  
Junior Scholarship 

5. Announces availability of 5 days after step 
Affairs Officer 

scholarship benefits. no. 4  
● M. Mante 

 

196



3. Presents school ID at the * OSA no longer has control after    
Cash Office and claims this step, but we usually advise  
allowance (in cheque) or students that it will take 5-8 working 
checks at ATM machines days. 
(through cash cards). 

TOTAL None 7 days and 40  
minutes 

 

16. Application for the Kadaganan Fund 
Application for students to borrow from the Kadaganan Fund – microfinancing for student’s short-term needs. 

 

Office of Division Office of Student Affairs 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● OSA Form KF1 ● Office of Student Affairs/Online 

● Form 5; ID ● Office of Student Affairs 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Secures and accomplishes 1.  Provides application form and None 5 minutes Junior Scholarship 
the application form  instructs students of the  Affairs Officer 

requirements. ● M. Mante 
  

Admin Asst. 

197



● S. Pleños  

 

2. Submits accomplished 2. Receives and checks the   5 minutes Junior Scholarship 
application form together with application form and the required Affairs Officer 
copies of Form 5 and school documents. ● M. Mante 
ID    

Admin Asst. 

● S. Pleños  

3. Signs the logbook. 3. Instructs the student to sign the  2 minutes Junior Scholarship 
logbook. Affairs Officer 

● M. Mante 

 

Admin Asst. 

● S. Pleños  

4. Undergoes for an interview. 4. Conducts an interview with the  5 minutes Junior Scholarship 
student.  Affairs Officer 

● M. Mante 

Admin Asst. 

● S. Pleños  

5. Seeks approval of the OSA 5. OSA Director approves  5 minutes OSA Director 
Director. application.  ● Ma. Alena Macasil 

6. Submits the approved 6. Collects approved applications  5 minutes Junior Scholarship 
application form and claims the and gives the money. Affairs Officer 
money. ● M. Mante 

 

Admin Asst. 

198



● S. Pleños  

TOTAL None 27 minutes  

 

17. Donation to the Kadaganan Fund 
Documentation and acknowledgement of kind donation to Kadaganan Fund – microfinancing for student’s short-term needs. 

 

Office of Division Office of Student Affairs 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Students, Faculty, Staff, Alumni 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● OSA Form KF 2  Office of Student Affairs/online 
● Donation Form 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Secures and fills up the 1. Provides a copy of the None 10 minutes Junior Scholarship 
Kadaganan Donation Form. Kadaganan Donation Form.   Affairs Officer 

 ● M. Mante 
 

 

Admin Asst. 

●  S. Pleños  

 

2. Once filled up, have it 2. OSA Director signs the  3 minutes OSA Director 
signed by the OSA Director  Donation form.  ●  M. A. Macasil 

199



3. Submits the Donation Form 3. Receives the Form together with  5 minutes Junior Scholarship 
and gives the money for the donation. Affairs Officer 
donation. ● M. Mante 

Admin Asst. 

● S. Pleños  

 

4. Receives acknowledgement 4. Prepares and gives an  5 minutes Junior Scholarship 
letter for the donation. acknowledgement letter. Affairs Officer 

● M. Mante 

Admin Asst. 

● S. Pleños  

TOTAL None  13 minutes  

18. Student Assistant (SA) Application for Requesting Offices 
Application of offices to request for student assistants be assigned to their office. 

 

Office of Division Office of Student Affairs 

Classification Complex 

Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government 

Who may avail UP Offices 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Student Assistant Request Form  Office of Student Affairs 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

200



1. Submits Student 1. Accepts Student Assistant None 5 minutes Requesting Office 
Assistant (SA) Request Request Form.   
Form. 

2. Waits for the Budget 2. Deliberates requests and gets  30 minutes UP Cebu Committee 
clearance & Deliberation clearance from the Budget  on Scholarships and 
of SA requests. Officer. Financial Assistance 

 (CCSFA) 

Budget Officer 

● M.Bugash 

3. Secures the Notice of 3. Sends Approval Notice.  5 days GSS in-charge  
approval of SA Request  ● E.Torrevillas-Lauglaug 

Scholarship Officer 

● M. Mante 

4. Submits Evaluation   5 minutes Requesting Office / 
Form at the end of the Admin Assistant 
semester. 

TOTAL None 5 days and 40  
minutes 

 

19. Student Assistant (SA) Application for Students 
Application of interested students for student assistants 

 

Office of Division Office of Student Affairs 

Classification Highly Technical 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Students 

201



CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

 Office of Student Affairs 
● Student Assistant Application Form 

 Human Resource Development Office 
● List or Requirements 

● Complete requirements 

● Notice of Appointment 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Inquires Student Assistant 1. Prepares pubmat and None 3 minutes Admin Asst. 
(SA) vacancies for a announces opening of SA in  ● S. Pleños 
particular office OSA Facebook 

2. Fills out and submits an 2. Accepts application form and  10 minutes Admin Asst. 
application form for screens the document.  ● S. Pleños 
screening. 

3. Proceeds to OSA for 3.Verifies SA application form.  5 minutes Admin Asst. 
endorsement of SA   ● S. Pleños 
application. 

4.  Undergoes the Interview for  4. Interviews the applicant and  10 minutes OSA Director 
Student Assistant  endorses the SA application. ● Ma. Alena Macasil 

5. Proceeds to HRDO and 5. Accepts the approved application  5 minutes HRDO Staff 
submits an approved form and provides a list of 
application form for SA requirements for SA. 
requirements. 

6. Submit documents and 6. Accepts and verify documents  10 minutes HRDO Staff 
requirements to HRDO. and requirements  

202



7. Waits for the Notice of 7. Gives Notice of Appointment.  20 days HRDO Staff  
Appointment prior to  
reporting for duty. Admin Asst. 

● S. Pleños 

  
TOTAL None 20 days,43 minutes  

 

 

20. Release of Student Assistant (SA) Salary 
Processing the release of a student assistant’s monthly allowance. 

 

Office of Division Office of Student Affairs 

Classification Complex 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

 Office of Student Affairs 
● DTR, Journal 

● Work Schedule 

● ID 

FEES TO BE PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME 

PAID RESPONSIBLE 

1. Submits Daily Time Record 1.Accepts DTR, Journal, and work None 5 minutes  
(DTR), Journal, and Work schedule.  Admin Asst. 
Schedule.  

203



 2.Process the salary. *  5 days ● S. Pleños 

 

2. Claims salary at the Cash * OSA no longer has control after  10 minutes Cash Office Staff 
Office. this step, but we usually advise 

 students that it will take 5-8 
working days. 

TOTAL None 5 days and 15  
minutes 

 

21. Application for Recognition & Renewal of Student Organizations (SO) 
Application to be recognized as a student organization. 

 

Office of Division Office of Student Affairs 

Classification Highly Technical 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government of Citizen 

Who may avail Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

 Office of Student Affairs 
● OSA Form No. 10 – Checklist of Requirements for Application and 

Renewal for Recognition of Student Organizations w/ ff. SOA 
Forms: 

● Student Org Application Form 001-  
Application Letter 

● Student Org Application Form 002- 
Acceptance of Adviser 

● Student Org Application Form 003-Acceptance of Co-Advisership, 

204



● Student Org Application Form 004- General Plan of Activities 
(GPOA), 

● Student Org Application Form 005 -Directory of Officers,  

● Student Org Application Form 006- Directory of Members, 

● Student Org Application Form 007-Accomplishment Report, 

● Student Org Application Form 008- Financial Status Report 

FEES TO BE PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME 

PAID RESPONSIBLE 

1. Requests for the list of 1. Gives a copy of the checklist of None 5 minutes  GSS in-charge  
requirements for application requirements for application for  ● A.Maglasang 
for recognition of student recognition of student     
organizations or renewal of organizations and/ or renewal (in 
existing student org. (in person at OSA/ Posted online at 
person at the OSA office, UPC OSA website/or FB page) 
OSA FB or website, or 
email). 

2. Submits completed online 2. Accepts  submitted forms and None 10 working days  GSS in-charge  
forms and requirements checks for the completeness and  ● A.Maglasang 
(Pdf files or printed forms)  authenticity of the required  

documents 
3. Checks status and 3.1. Submits a printed report to   GSS in-charge  

confirmation of the VCAA and Chancellor for  None 5 working days ● A.Maglasang 
recognition or renewal of the approval. 
student organization    

3.2 Emails the pdf file-copy of the 
listing of recognized Student 
Organizations for the Academic 
Year to OVCA/ OVCAA / OC 

205



TOTAL NA 15 working days and  
5 minutes 

 

 

22. Request to Hold Student Organization (SO) Activities inside UP Campus 
Request endorsement for student organization’s activity that will be held inside or within university campus. 

 

Office of Division Office of Student Affairs 

Classification Complex 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Student Organizations 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Respective Student Organization  
● Signed Letter request by President/ &  Faculty Adviser 

UP Cebu website  
● Online reservations 

SSU/CMO 
● Security guidelines (for big events) 

● Solid waste management guidelines (for big events) 
FEES TO BE PERSON 

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME 
PAID RESPONSIBLE 

206



1. Submits Letter Request 1. 1.Accepts the Letter None 10 minutes Admin Aide 
addressed to the request and checks if SO  ● K. DIzon 
Chancellor/VCA for the is recognized based on  
purpose of the activity/or the approved listing for 
event signed by the President the particular academic 
of the Student organization year 
(SO), Endorsed by the Faculty 
adviser/ co- adviser/ or Dean 
(online or in person).  

2. Accomplishes  an online 2.Checks online None 1 day GSS in-charge  
reservation form with details reservations on behalf ● A.Maglasang 
on date, time needed and of the OSA Director and  
logistical requirements.  inputs comments and  OSA Director  

remarks to facilitate the ● A. Macasil 
activity/ or event  

3. Submits security plans & 3.1. Accepts and reviews if None 1 day Head, 
guidelines for big events/ security guidelines have been  Safety & Security Unit 
activities that go beyond checked and endorsed by the ● JP Guieb 
curfew hours, with more than SSU Head.   
100 participants and a list of   
chaperones with signatures 3.2. Endorses the activity/ GSS in-charge  
and conforme from the Head security plans and submits  to ● A.Maglasang 
of Safety & Security Unit OVCA and OC for final  
(SSU)  approval 

4. Submits solid waste 4.1.  Accepts and reviews solid None  2 days CMO In Charge 
management plans for waste management plans and  ● J.Alcantara 
activities that have more than check OR payment of  
100 participants, and activities concessionaires have been HSU Head 
involving the setting up of checked and endorsed by the ● Dr. L.Dee 
food/non-food booths/ CMO-for electrical and water  
concessionaires and must get use payment and HSU Head GSS in-charge  
endorsement from Campus for sanitary permits.  

207



Maintenance Office (CMO)  of Student 
/Health Services Unit (HSU)   4.2.Endorses the activity/ solid Organizations 

waste management plans and ● A. Maglasang 
submits  to OVCA and OC for 
final approval 

5. Have the letter endorsed by 5. Endorses the letter request.  None 10 minutes OSA Director 
OSA DIrector   ● A. Macasil 

TOTAL NA 4 days and 20  
minutes 

 
23. Request to Hold Student Organization (SO)Activities outside UP Campus 

Request endorsement for student organization’s activity that will be held outside university campus.  

 

Office of Division Office of Student Affairs 

Classification Complex 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Student Organizations 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Signed Letter Request by the President & Faculty Adviser   Office of Student Affairs 
● Local off campus activities Report of Compliance Checklist   College Clerks 
● Student Waiver Forms   
● Certificate of Compliance 

FEES TO PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME 

BE PAID RESPONSIBLE 

1. Submits a letter of request to 1. 1. Reviews the compliance   GSS in-charge  
the Chancellor stating the ff.: checklist and  report of   ●   A.Maglasang  
● purpose of the activity, compliance  

208



● date and time of activity  None 5 days 
outside the campus 1.2 Checks the completeness of 

● Faculty chaperone and student waiver forms  
trained first aid or  
emergency response staff  1.3. Verifies the chaperones and 

● Accomplished student trained first aid or emergency 
waiver forms response staff for out of the 
(in compliance with campus activities . 
guidelines from CHED) 

2. Seeks endorsement from OSA 2.1 Endorses the SO activity  10 minutes OSA Director 
Director.  outside the UP campus -If all  ●   A. Macasil 

 requirements are completed;  
 attachments and supporting 

 
documents, endorse the 
request.    
  
2.1 If requirements are 

GSS in-charge  
lacking, informs SO on 

●  A. Maglasang  
particular document that is 

 
lacking 

3. After endorsement from OSA,   3 days VCAA 
proceed for approval to VCAA ● P. Nazareno 
then to the Chancellor.   

Chancellor 

● Atty.Malagar 

TOTAL None 8 days and 10 minutes  

 
24. Request for Posting of Tarps, Posters, or Statements inside the Campus 

Request endorsement for posting of publication materials in designated areas around the campus. 

209



 

Office of Division Office of Student Affairs 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Students  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Posters/tarps/statement From client  

FEES TO 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID 

1. Submit posters, tarpaulins, 1. Review and endorsement of None 10 minutes GSS in-charge of 
statements for review and posters, tarpaulins, and  Information Service  
endorsement in office or statements.  ● E. Torrevillas-Lauglaug 
online through  

 
osa.upcebu@up.edu.ph  
and OSA Director 
pio.upcebu@up.edu.ph. ● A. Macasil 

2. If in-office request, client will 2. After endorsement, the  1 day Public Information Officer 
forward the postings to the request will be forwarded to   
Public Information Office the Public Information Office 
(PIO).   for approval. 

3. Once the posting is 3. Inform clients of approval so  10 minutes Public Information Officer 
approved by the PIO, they can post on official UP  
client(s) may start posting in platforms. 
designated areas in the 
campus and/ or official UP 
Cebu online social media 
platform. 

4. For big tarpaulins/   1 day Campus Maintenance 
streamers, seek help from Staff (for actual posting of 

210



the Campus Maintenance big tarps or streamers in 
Office (CMO). designated areas only)  

TOTAL NA 2 days and 20  
minutes 

 

OSA DIRECTORY 
Name   Designation Email 

1. Ma. Alena N. Macasil OSA Director mnmacasil@up.edu.ph 

2. Annabelle G. Maglasang Guidance Services Specialist agmaglasang@up.edu.ph 

3. Cipriano V. Olita Guidance Services Specialist cvolita@up.edu.ph 

4. Jeffrey D. Pelonio Guidance Services Specialist jdpelonio@up.edu.ph 

5. Emily S.Torrevillas-  Lauglaug  Guidance Services Specialist estorrevillaslauglaug@up.edu.ph 

6. Marilou B. Mante  Junior Scholarship Affairs Officer mbmante@up.edu.ph 

7. Summer M. Pleños  Administrative Assistant smplenos@up.edu.ph 

8. Keziah Chase Dizon Junior Office  Aide kadizon1@up.edu.ph 

 

211



UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 

EXTERNAL SERVICES 

1. Registration for Library Access

The University Library welcomes visitors/non-UP researchers on specified days of the week including UP graduates, former UP 
faculty and staff; graduate students from other institutions; government and private researchers; and undergraduate students from 
other universities. 

Office of Division University Library 

Classification Simple 

Type of Government to Citizen 
Transaction 

Who may avail Non-UP Users 

CHECKLIST OF WHERE TO SECURE 
REQUIREMENTS 

For Alumni: 
1. Valid ID with Requesting Party 
picture
2. Proof of Office of Alumni Relations 
completed program Office of the University Registrar 

For Non-UP Users: 
1. Valid ID with Requesting Party 
picture Sending Institution or Requesting 

Party 

212



2. Referral or
Request Letter
(original copy)

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 

1. Present valid ID 1. Verify the identity of client None 10 minutes Library Personnel 
with picture and and validity of ID and
referral letter or referral letter or proof of
proof of program program completed
completed 1.2. Issue payment slip for None 2 minutes Library Personnel 

a research fee 

2. Receive payment 2. Check accuracy of None 2 minutes Cash Office Personnel 

slip and pay the Official Receipt

required fees either Please see 

at the Cashier's table below

Office or online via 
Maya app. Make 
sure to secure 
Official Receipt that 
will be issued upon 
payment.

 

3. Accomplish Non­ 3. Check for accuracy of None 3 minutes Library Personnel 
u P Researchers information
Logsheet

4. Return to 4. Photocopy the Official None 2 minutes Library Personnel 

University Library Receipt for library copy.
and present the

213



214



2. Checking-Out (Borrowing) of Library Books

UP Cebu students, faculty members, REPS and staff can borrow books from the library. 

Office of Division University Library 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction Government to Citizen, Government to Government 

Who may avail UP Students and UP Employees 

CHECKLIST OF WHERE TO SECURE 
REQUIREMENTS 

1. Valid UP ID, Copy Office of the University Registrar 
of Appointment Human Resource Development Office 
Documents for
Faculty Members University Library / Circulation Counter 

2. Duly
Accomplished Book
Card - in varying
color based on the
type of resources
and section

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 

1. Fill out book card 
None 2 minutes 

with name, degree 
program, and 
student/employee 
number

215



2. Hand in duly 2. Receive book/s to be None 1 minute 
accomplished book borrowed, duly 
card, the book to be accomplished book 
borrowed, and card, and valid ID
valid ID None 1 minutes 

2.1. Check ID and 
verify the borrower's Library Personnel 
status at Integrated 
Library System (ILS)

2.2. Scan barcode of None 1 minute 
book and check-out 
under the borrower's 
account 

2.3 Stamp due date None 2 minutes 
and counter sign 
Due Date Slip and 
Book card 

3. Give book/s and ID to None 1 minute 
3. Receive book/s 

the borrower.

TOTAL 8 minutes 

216



3. Checking-In (Returning) of Library Books

UP Cebu students, faculty members, REPS, and staff must return library books to avoid tagging of deficiency by the University Library. 

Office of Division University Library 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction Government to Citizen, Government to Government 

Who may avail UP Students and UP Employees 

CHECKLIST OF WHERE TO SECURE 
REQUIREMENTS 

1. Valid UP ID, or Office of the University Registrar 
Copy of Appointment Human Resource Development Office 
Documents for
Faculty Members

2. Book/s for return
Requesting Party 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 

1 Present book/s for 1 . Receive book/s for None 1 minute Library Personnel 
return/check-in return/check-in 

1 minute 
1 .1 Scan the barcode of None 

the book for return and 
clear it from the 
borrower's account at 
the Integrated Library 
System (ILS).

217



218



4. Renewing of Books Borrowed / Checked Out

Students, faculty members, REPS, and staff of UP Cebu may renew the loan duration of the books they have borrowed. 

Office of Division University Library 

Classification Simple 

Type of Government to Citizen, Government to Government 
Transaction 

Who may avail UP Students and UP Employees 

CHECKLIST OF WHERE TO SECURE 
REQUIREMENTS 

1. Valid UP ID, or Office of the University Registrar 
Copy of Human Resource Development Office 
Appointment
Documents for
Faculty Members

2. Book/s for Requesting Party 
renewal

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 

1. Present valid ID 1 . Receive ID and book/s None 2 minutes Library Personnel 
and book/s for
renewal 1.1 Retrieve/pull-out and None 3 minutes 

hand in book card of 
book/s to borrower 

None 2 minutes 

219



220



5. Requests Filipiniana, Reserve Books and Theses

This service handles room-use requests for library books, theses and other materials stored in a closed-shelved system. 

Office of Division University Library 
Classification Simple 
Type of Government to Citizen, Government to Government 
Transaction 

Who may avail UP Students, UP Employees, Non-UP Users 
CHECKLIST OF WHERE TO SECURE 

REQUIREMENTS 

1. Validated ID, or Office of the University Registrar 
Copy of Human Resources Development Office 
Appointment
Documents for
Faculty Members
2. Duly
Accomplished University Library/ Circulation Counter 
Request Form (Call
Slip

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 

1 . Fill-out Book Call None 2 minutes Library Personnel 
Slip

2. Hand in duty 2. Receive Request Form None 1 minute 
accomplished
Request Form at 2.1. Retrieve the None 10 minutes 

221



222



6. Requests for Photocopying of Library Materials

This service processes the photocopying of books and other library resources. 

Office of Division University Library 

Classification Simple 

Type of Government to Citizen, Government to Government 
Transaction 

Who may avail Non-UP Users, UP Students, and UP Employees 

CHECKLIST OF WHERE TO SECURE 
REQUIREMENTS 

1. Valid ID, or Copy Office of the University Registrar 
of Appointment Human Resources Development Office 
Documents for
Faculty Members

2. Duly University Library/ Circulation Counter 
Accomplished Exit
Pass Form

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 

1 . Accomplish 2 None 2 minutes Library Personnel 
copies Exit Pass 
Slip 

2. Hand in the duly 2. Receive Exit Pass Slip None 1 minute 
accomplished Exit and valid ID

223



224



7. Request for Use of Discussion Table

This facility is provided for students use for academic and research-related discussions. 

Office of Division University Library 

Classification Simple 

Type of Government to Citizen, Government to Government 
Transaction 

Who may avail UP Students and UP Employees 

CHECKLIST OF WHERE TO SECURE 
REQUIREMENTS 

1. Valid UP ID or Office of the University Registrar 
Copy of Human Resource Development Office 
Appointment
Documents for
Faculty Members

2. Duly University Library/ Circulation Counter 
Accomplished
Discussion Table
Log

3. Minimum
number of users; Requesting Party 

Group of three (3)
persons

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 

225



1. Present valid ID 1. Check the availability of None 5 minutes Library Personnel 
and state request the area
for use of
Discussion Table,
Wyteboard marker
pen and eraser at
the Circulation
Counter

2. Accomplish the 2. Hand in the Library None 5 minutes 
Library Services Services Log folder
Log

2.1.  Give wyteboard pen None 1 minute 
and eraser 

2.2. Clip ID to the Log None 1 minute 
Sheet folder 

3. Proceed to the
discussion table

4. Return 4. Receive borrowed items None 1 minute 
wyteboard marker and return the ID
pen and eraser

TOTAL 13 minutes 

226



8. Requests for Use of Computers to Access UP Cebu subscribed Library Databases

This service provides UP Cebu students, faculty members and staff access to CDAsia Online, NVIVO, etc. 

Office of Division University Library 

Classification Simple 

Type of Government to Citizen, Government to Government 
Transaction 

Who may availUP UP Students and UP Employees 

CHECKLIST OF WHERE TO SECURE 
REQUIREMENTS 

1. Valid UP ID or Office of the University Registrar 
copy of Human Resource Development Office 
Appointment for
Faculty Members

University Library/ Circulation Counter 
2. Library Services
Log Folder

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 

1.  Present valid ID 1.  Receive and verify identity None 1 minute Library Personnel 

2. Accomplish the 2. Hand in Library Services
Library Services Log folder None 2 minutes 

Log

227



2.1 Hand in the flier for e- None 1 minute 
resources log-in details 

3. Proceed to the 3. Assist clients to login to
available the database None 1 minute 
computer.

TOTAL None  6 minutes 

 

 

 
 

 

228



229



230



231



232



233



234



235



236



13. Payment of Fines

Settlement of accountabilities or fines for library books returned after due date. 

Office of Division University Library 

Classification Simple 
Type of G2C - Government to Citizen, Government to Government 
Transaction 

Who may avail UP Students and UP Employees 
CHECKLIST OF WHERE TO SECURE 

REQUIREMENTS 

1. Valid UP ID or Office of the University Registrar for Students 
Copy Appointment Human Resources Development Office 
Documents for
Faculty Members

2. Borrowed Books Requestina Party 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 

1 . Present book to 1.  Check due date and None 5 minutes Library Personnel 
the Circulation In- compute fine 
charge 

2. Pay fine via 2. Issue receipt (for manual See table 1 minute 
counter or online payment) below 

via Maya app 2.1.  Scan barcode of the 2 minutes 
book/s to be returned 
and clear it from the 

237



borrower's account 

3. Receive 3. Hand in the Provisional None 1 minute 
Provisional Receipt Receipt to client (for manual 

payment)
TOTAL 9 minutes 

Table of Fines 

Regular Circulation Reserved 

First Hour Not Applicable PHP 1.00 

Succeeding Hour Not Applicable PHP 5.00 

Whole Day PHP 2.00 (Exclusive of Sundays PHP 50.00 (Inclusive of 
and Holidays) Sundays and Holidays) 

238



14. Request for Turnitin Account, Similarity Index Report, and AI Report
Turnitin is an instrument used to determine the originality of written works. This tool is available for use by faculty members and 
students. 

Office of Division University Library 

Classification Simple 

Type of Government to Citizen 
Transaction 

Who may avail UP Cebu Students and Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF WHERE TO SECURE 
REQUIREMENTS 

1. Valid UP ID and Office of the University Registrar for Students 
Form 5 for students; Human Resource Development Office 
or Appointment of
Employment with
any other valid
ID for Faculty, and
REPS

2. Online Request Requesting Party 
Form

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 

1 . For students, fill 1 . Check the status None 3 minutes Librarians 
out the Turnitin 
Plagiarism Checker 1.1 Once the status is None 10 minute 
online using UP verified, create an 
webmail. account and notify the 

student via email 

239



2. For Faculty, 2. Create an account and None 3 minutes 
submit request and notify the faculty through
copy of valid ID or email that an account has
appointment paper been created.
via email at
librar .upcebu@up. e
du.ph

3. Check UP 3. Verify and run the None 10 minutes 
webmail to activate document in the web tool
your account

4. Upload the 4. Wait for the web tool to None 10 minutes 
document and email finish evaluating the 
the library for document
information None 10 minutes 

5. Download the similarity 
5. Receive report/s index and/or AI reports and 
through email. send it to the requester.

TOTAL ....  4 3 minutes 

 
 

 

 

 
 

240



241



242



TOTAL 55 minutes 

FEEDBACK MECHANISMS 

1. Emoticon
Library users are free to show their overall feelings vis-a-vis our library services by dropping the desired smiley based on their library
experience/s.

Mechanics: 
a. Pick printed and laminated emoticon (sad or happy) of their choice provided in the entrance/exit of the library;
b. Drop the chosen emoticon to the transparent drop box at the entrance/exit of the library;
c. Accumulated emoticons are tallied and recorded every month.

2. Online
For comments and suggestions, please fill in the feedback form located at http://www.library.upcebu.edu.ph or via email at

library.upcebu@up.edu.ph 

3. Filing a Complaint
3.1 Send complaint via email at library.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
3.2 Through telephone call 

3.3.1 Dial (032) 232-2642 local 316 
3.3.2 Provide the following information: 

3.3 Name of person being complained 
3.4 Incident 
3.5 Evidence 

4. Feedback and Complaints Processing
a. Accumulated emoticons are tallied and recorded every month.
b. Website administrator checks and monitors the website dashboard for possible Feedback Form submitted.

243



244



 

CENTRAL VISAYAS STUDIES CENTER (CVSC) 
 
EXTERNAL SERVICES 
 
1. Oversees inter-government communications related to trainings and workshops and other research related 

data requests 
Respond to regional government agencies’ communications, letters of invitation to send participants in workshops, requests for trainings 
and participation in interagency meetings, and request for research-related data 
 
Office or Division Central Visayas Studies Center 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail Regional Government Agencies 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Email addresses of government agencies, letters of responses Official Email Inbox of CVSC 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Sends letters of 1. Responds by email to letters of 7 Days CVSC Director 

invitation and invitation and different types of  Central Visayas Studies Center 

requests to CVSC requests such as participation in   

or to the Chancellor government-organized programs and   

forwarded to CVSC meetings and request for data   
 

   
None CVSC Director 

 2. Reports personally to the government 1-14 Days Central Visayas Studies Center 
 agency office. (dependent on  
  volume and extent  
 3. Provides needed research-related of data needed) University Researcher and 

data. CVSC Director 
Central Visayas Studies Center 

TOTAL None 21 Days  

 
 

245



 

INTERNAL SERVICES 
 
1. Facilitate multidisciplinary research on issues that concern the Central Visayas 

     The office is tasked to oversee research issues and concerns in Central Visayas.  
 

Office or Division Central Visayas Studies Center 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government, G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty/REPS 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Proposal Form UPCIDS Local and Regional Network Studies 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Accomplishes proposal 1. Calls for participants to a workshop 22 Days 

application form to come up with multidisciplinary  
 research proposals  

 
 

2. Submits proposal to 2. Consolidates the budgetary 
 

CVSC requirements for all studies under 
 

the project University Researcher and 
 CVSC Director 

3. Project study 3. Submits the proposal to UPCIDS  Central Visayas Studies Center 
implementation upon  None 

 
receipt of FCM  

4. Submits discussion 4. Monitors the approval of the grant  
papers and transfer of funds through a 132 Days 

 Funding Check Memo (FCM)  
  
5. Submits policy papers 5. Provides administrative assistance  Admin, Aide, University 

in the release of funds per study.  Researcher and CVSC Director 
 Central Visayas Studies Center 

 
 

246



 

6. Monitors status of fund  University Researcher 
disbursements  Central Visayas Studies Center 

 
7. Monitors progress of each studies  University Researcher and 

132 Days CVSC Director 
Central Visayas Studies Center 

8. Conducts one of the studies under UP Cebu Faculty, University 
the CIDS-funded Research Project  Researcher and CVSC Director 

Central Visayas Studies Center 
9. Submits study outputs namely 

discussion papers and policy CVSC Director 

papers to CIDS Central Visayas Studies Center 

10. Facilitates the release of fund University Researcher and 
tranches CVSC Director 

Central Visayas Studies Center 
11. Submits financial statements of 

University Researcher 
fund disbursed for the project to 

Central Visayas Studies Center 
CIDS 

TOTAL None 264 Days  
  

 
 

247



 

2. Facilitate UP System Enhanced Creative Work and Research Grant 
 The office is tasked to supervise and implement the Enhanced Creative Work and Research Grant 
 
Office or Division Central Visayas Studies Center 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty and REPS 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Proposal Form OVPAA Website: https://ovpaa.up.edu.ph/enhanced-creative-work-
 and-research-grant/https://ovpaa.up.edu.ph/ 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Accomplishes 1. Sends the proposal for review to the None 30 Days 

University Researcher and 
ECWRG proposal expert reviewer and UP Cebu  

CVSC Director 
application form Research Ethics Committee  

Central Visayas Studies Center 
 (UPCREC)  
2. Submits proposal for 2. Checks if the revisions prescribed by  

CVSC Director 
review the expert and REC have been 15 Days 

Central Visayas Studies Center 
 incorporated 
3. Proponent revises the 3. Endorses the revised proposal to 

proposal then submits OCVAA CVSC Director 
Central Visayas Studies Center 

back to CVSC 
 4. Facilitates the submission of the 
 revised proposal to the OVCAA University Researcher 

 Central Visayas Studies Center 

TOTAL None 45 Days  
  

 
 

248



 

3. Facilitate and endorse UP System Research Dissemination Grant 
The office is tasked to supervise and implement the UP System Research Dissemination Grant 

 
Office or Division Central Visayas Studies Center 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government, G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty and REPS 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
UP System RDG Application form OVPAA Website: https://ovpaa.up.edu.ph/up-research-

 dissemination-grant-rdg/; CVSC website: 
http://cvsc.upcebu.edu.ph 
FEES TO BE PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
PAID TIME 

1. Accomplishes UP System 1. Reviews and assess the 2 Days University Researcher 
RDG Form and submits to reputation of the conference and  Central Visayas Studies Center 
CVSC Conference Paper conference organizers    
Acceptance and other 2. Endorses verified quality and  
supporting documents reputable Conferences  CVSC Director 
prescribed in the  Central Visayas Studies Center 
application form  
 3. Facilitates submission of  

None 
2. Submits accomplished endorsed RDG Application to 1 Day University Researcher 

forms and documents to OVCAA  Central Visayas Studies Center 

CVSC  
4. Endorses conference report 

  CVSC Director 
submitted 

3. Submits conference report 1 Day Central Visayas Studies Center 

if request is granted 5. Facilitates submission of University Researcher/ Admin 
endorsed conference report to Aide 
OVCAA Central Visayas Studies Center 

TOTAL None 4 Days  
  

 
 

249



 

4. Facilitate and endorse UP System International Publication Award 
The office is tasked to oversee the application of the UP System International Publication Award. 

 
Office or Division Central Visayas Studies Center 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government, G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty and REPS 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
IPA Application Form OVPAA Website:https://ovpaa.up.edu.ph/downloads-page-
 awards-and-incentives/ 

FEES TO PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME 

BE PAID RESPONSIBLE 
1. Accomplishes UP System IPA 1. Acknowledges the 1 Day CVSC Director 

Application Form, Publication submission of the application  Central Visayas Studies 

indexed in either WoS or for IPA Center 

Scopus, and other supporting 2. Reviews and assesses the 22 Days University Researcher 
documents indicated in the reputation of the publication (For very recent Central Visayas Studies 
application form through WoS and Scopus publication indexed in Center 

 index list Scopus, a waiting  

 period of 1 month is 
 prescribed.  
 None Certification is issued 
 upon the appearance 

of the article in the 
Scopus database) 

2. Submits accomplished forms 3. Certifies the verified 1 Day University Researcher and 
and documents to CVSC publication CVSC Director 

Central Visayas Studies 
Center 

3. Retrieves the endorsed 4. Endorses verified reputation 1 Day CVSC Director 
application at the OVCAA of the publication Central Visayas Studies 

Center 

 
 

250



 

4. Submits the endorsed 5. Facilitates the submission of CVSC Director, University 
application to the OVPAA the endorsed application and Director, and Admin Aide 

 certification to the OVCAA Central Visayas Studies 

(by email and by fast mail Center 

delivery) 
TOTAL None 25 Days  

 
  

 
 

251



 

5. Facilitate UP Cebu Creative Work and Research Grant Application (UPC CWRG) 
The office is tasked to supervise and implement the UP Cebu Creative Work and Research Grant Application 
 

Office  Central Visayas Studies Center 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty and REPS 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
CVSC Website :http://cvsc.upcebu.edu.ph/ 

● Application Form 
Prepared and facilitated by CVSC 

● Research Contract Prepared and facilitated by CVSC 
Prepared and facilitated by CVSC 

● Certificate of Proposal Revision 

● Certificate of Manuscript Submission 
FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Accomplishes CWRG 1. Disseminates calls for in-house 30 Days University Researcher 
proposal application form research grants (API and CWRG and CVSC Director 
downloaded from CVSC from CHED fund) Central Visayas Studies 
website Center 

2. Submits proposal for review 2. Sends the proposal for review to 30 Days 
 the expert reviewer and UP Cebu 

Research Ethics Committee University Researcher 
(UPCREC) and CVSC Director 

None Central Visayas Studies 
3. Proponent revises the 3. After the review process, returns 15 Days Center 

proposal then submits back the proposal to the proponent for 
to CVSC revision 

4. Proponent have the 4. Checks if the revisions prescribed 2 Days 
contract notarized by the expert and REC has been CVSC Director 

incorporated Central Visayas Studies 
Center 

 
 

252



 

5. Issue a certification of the revised 2 Days University Researcher 
proposal Central Visayas Studies 
 Center 

6. Facilitates the signing of the 2 Days 
contract to the parties involved: University Researcher 

proponent, CVSC Director, Central Visayas Studies 
Center 

VCAA & Chancellor   

7. Facilitates the submission of the 14 Days University Researcher 
signed contract for notarization at Central Visayas Studies 
the Legal Office Center 

8. Facilitates the submission of the 1 Day 
notarized contract and certificate  
of proposal revision to the  
OVCAA for the release of the 
first tranche of the grant. 

9. Monitors the progress of the grant 162 Days 
provided 

University Researcher 
and CVSC Director 

10. Monitors the completion of the 264 Days Central Visayas Studies 
Center 

grant provided. 
11. Certifies the completion of the 2 Days 

research conducted 

12. Facilitates the submission of the 
required documents for the 
release of the final tranche of the 
grant. 

TOTAL None 524 Days  
 
  

 
 

253



 

6. Disseminate information and communication pertaining to research sent by government agencies, 
NGOs, or private organizations 
The office is tasked to oversee the information dissemination and communication related to research sent by other GAs, NGOs and 
private organizations. 

 
Office or Division Central Visayas Studies Center 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government, G2C – Government to Citizen, G2B – Government 

to Business 
Who may avail Faculty and REPS 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Communications from NGOs and NGAs and other private Official communication sent to CVSC 
organizations  

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Acknowledges receipt of E-blasts official communications 1 Hour University Researcher and 

communication related to research and research CVSC Director 

 application None Central Visayas Studies 

2. Acts on invitations if it is of  Center 

their field of interest.   

TOTAL None 1 Hour  
  

 
 

254



 

7. Facilitate and endorse UP Cebu Research Dissemination Grant 
The office is tasked to supervise and implement the UP Cebu Research Dissemination Grant. 

 
Office or Division Central Visayas Studies Center 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty and REPS 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
UP Cebu RDG Application form CVSC Website :http://cvsc.upcebu.edu.ph/ 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Accomplishes UP Cebu RDG 1. Reviews and assesses the None 2 Days University Researcher 

Form and submits to CVSC reputation of the conference and  Central Visayas 

Conference Paper Acceptance conference organizers  Studies Center 
and other supporting documents    

prescribed in the application 2. Endorses verified quality and 1 day CVSC Director 

form reputable Conferences  Central Visayas 
Studies Center 

   
 

2. Submits accomplished forms 3. Facilitates submission of  
University Researcher 

and documents to CVSC endorsed RDG Application to  and Admin Aide 
 OVCAA  Central Visayas 
3. Submits conference report if   Studies Center 

request is granted 4. Endorses conference report 2 Days 
 submitted 
  

 5. Facilitates submission of 
endorsed conference report to 
OVCAA 

TOTAL None 5 Days  
 
  

 
 

255



 

8. Provide answers to inquiries on research and research related matters 
The office is tasked to provide feedback to queries related to research and research related concerns. 

 
Office or Division Central Visayas Studies Center 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty and REPS 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
NA Send email to CVSC 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Emails data request to 1. Replies to the inquiries immediately if 1Day 
CVSC questions can be readily answered  
   
 2. Assesses the time required to  

University Researcher and 
 accomplish the request and replies 1 Day 

CVSC Director 
 when to receive the data requested. None  

Central Visayas Studies 
  Center 

3. If data is readily available  
 1 Day 

4. If data needs to be reprocessed  
3 Days 

TOTAL None 5 Days  
 
  

 
 

256



 

9. Assess, Verify and Post Reported Publications/Creative Work Output 
The office is tasked to assess and verify the quality of reported research publications and creative work. 

 
Office or Division Central Visayas Studies Center 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty and REPS 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Publication/Creative Work Output Reported research and creative work output of the 
 Faculty/REPS 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Submits publication and 1. Acknowledges receipt of submitted 1 Day University Researcher and 
creative work output report publication/ creative work  CVSC Director 
to CVSC  Central Visayas Studies 

 Center 
 2. Assesses and verifies the quality of the 1 Day 
 publication based on the journal reputation  
 and indexing  

None 
   

University Researcher 
3. For creative work based on art exhibit  Central Visayas Studies 

organizer and critique  Center 
  

4. Verified, reported publications are posted 2 Days 
at the CVSC website 

TOTAL None 4 Days  
 
  

 
 

257



 

10. Post Reported Research and Creative Work Presentation 
The office is tasked to post reported research and creative work for public dissemination. 

 
Office or Division Central Visayas Studies Center 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty and REPS 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Research Presentation Report Form CVSC Website :http://cvsc.upcebu.edu.ph/ 
Creative Work Output Report (Documentation of the Art exhibit)  

PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID 

TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Submits research 1. Acknowledges receipt of submitted 1 Day University Researcher 

presentation report and publication/ creative work report  and CVSC Director 
creative work output  Central Visayas 

report to CVSC None Studies Center 
 2. Posts report at the CVSC website 2 Day University Researcher 

Central Visayas 
Studies Center 

TOTAL None 3 Days  
 
  

 
 

258



 

11. Propose and conduct seminar-workshops (including API Seminar-Workshops) and forums on research 
and publication matters and different issues in Central Visayas and the nation 

The office proposes seminar-workshops and forums on research and publication matters that are relevant to the different issue in 
Central Visayas and the nation.  
 

Office or Division Central Visayas Studies Center 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty and REPS 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
API Proposal Form From OVCAA 

 
FEES TO 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
BE PAID 

1. OVCAA asks CVSC to 1. Crafts proposals for API 15 Days 
University Researcher and CVSC 

submit API Proposals.  seminar-workshops and  Director Central Visayas Studies 
submits these to the OVCAA.  Center 

2. Faculty suggests 2. Writes letters of invitation to 7Days 
topics for forums and speakers. 
seminar-workshops  CVSC Director 
 3. Invites faculty and REPS to None Central Visayas Studies Center 
 participate in the API Seminar-
 Workshops and forums 
 

4. Conducts these during the 30 Days before the Admin Staff/Research Aide, 
 

appointed time.  seminar-workshop and University Researcher and CVSC 
 

forum Director 
 Central Visayas Studies Center 

TOTAL None 52 Days  
 

 
  

 
 

259



 

FEEDBACK AND COMPLAINTS MECHANISM 
How to send feedback Through emails and telephone calls 
How feedbacks are processed By responding to emails and telephone calls 
How to file a complaint By writing a letter addressed to the CVSC Director; complainant can also come to the CVSC 

Office to complain verbally. 
How complaints are processed CVSC Director will respond through a printed letter or email to the letter of complaint. 

CVSC Director will talk to the complainant to address the complain 
Contact Information Central Visayas cvsc.upcebu@up.edu.ph  
Studies Center (032) 232-8187, Local 209 
  

 
 

260



 

UP CEBU OFFICE OF CONTINUING EDUCATION AND PADAYON (OCEP) 
 
EXTERNAL SERVICES 
 

1. Conduct of Trainings and Seminars 
The University accepts requests for trainings and seminars to be conducted by their faculty, REPS and/or staff for both private and 
public sectors. The University offers full packaged trainings and seminars which can be conducted in house or at the client’s 
specifications. The University also accepts requests for resource speakers, trainers, moderators, judges, or other specified 
specialized personnel requirements for client’s specific needs. 

  
Office of Division OCEP 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2B – Government to Business or G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail All 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. Request Letter 1. From the Client 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Submits the request letter for 1. Prepares and conducts None 60 Days University Extension 

assessment and approval  the training or seminar Associate 

according to the clients’ OCEP 

specifications and  

instructions Director 
Ugnayan ng Pahinungόd 

TOTAL None 60 Days  
 
  

 
 

261



 

INTERNAL SERVICES 
 
1. Processing of Basic Extension Fund (BEF)  

To help facilitate the extension programs and activities of the University, the Office of Continuing Education and Padayon is granting 
the Basic Extension Funds to qualified faculty, REPS, and staff who have applied for it. The allocated fund must be used within the 
calendar year for which they have applied for it. Guidelines on how to apply and how to allocate the funds are available at the office. 

 
Office of Division OCEP 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizens 
Who may avail Faculty, REPS, and Staff 

CHECKLIST  OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. Cover Letter with Project Proposal 2. OCEP 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Submits the cover letter 1. Endorses the Project None 10 Days University Extension 

with Project Proposal Proposal to the Director,   Associate 

 VCAA and Chancellor for   OCEP 

 Approval    
Director 

  None 15 Days 
Ugnayan ng Pahinungόd 

 1.1 After approval, drafts the  
Contract of Grant and submit  
it to the Legal Office and 
Office of the Chancellor for 
approval and signature 

2. Signs and Notarizes 2. Prepares the OBR and DV for None 3 Days University Extension 
Contract of Grant the first tranche of the grant Associate 

 OCEP 

3. Conducts the Extension 3. Monitors the extension activity None As specified in the University Extension 
Activity Contract of Grant Associate 

OCEP 

 
 

262



 

4. Prepares and submits the 4. Issues Certificate of None 7 Days University Extension 
Liquidation Report with Completion and prepares DV Associate 

attachments for the second tranche of the OCEP 

grant  
Director 

Ugnayan ng Pahinungόd 
TOTAL None 35 Days  

  

 
 

263



 

2. Monitoring of Extension Activities 
The Office of Continuing Education and Padayon monitors all extension programs and activities conducted by the University. Faculty, 
REPS, and staff submits to the office extension activity documents like attendance sheets, post activity evaluation forms, extension 
activity writes and other related documents to the office for consolidation. 
 

Office of Division OCEP 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty, REPS, and Staff 

CHECKLIST  OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. Attendance Sheets 1. OCEP 
2. Post Activity Evaluation Report 
3. Activity Write-up with Photos 

FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

BE PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Requests for Post 1. Conducts the Evaluations for the None 15 Days University Extension 

Activity Evaluations Extension Activity Associate 

forms 1.1 Makes the Post Activity Evaluation OCEP 

 forms 
1.2 Tallies the scores in the Evaluation form 

2. Requests for Secretarial 2. Assists in Extension Activities None 5 Days University Extension 
Assistance for  Associate 

Extension Activities OCEP 

  
Director 

Ugnayan ng Pahinungόd 
3. Posts Extension 3. Makes the Extension reports/Bulletins None 15 Days University Extension 

Bulletins Associate 
OCEP 

 
Director 

Ugnayan ng Pahinungόd 
TOTAL None 35 Days  

 
 

264



 

FEEDBACK AND COMPLAINTS MECHANISM 
 
How to send feedback You may file feedbacks/complaints with our office using the feedback form at 

the Office of Continuing Education and Padayon or directly email the office at 
ocep.upcebu@up.edu.ph.     

How feedbacks are processed The office receives the feedback and sorts. For suggestions, the office 
investigates proactive solutions or reevaluation of protocols. 

4. Reevaluation of process 
5. Corrective action 
6. Organizational improvement 

How to file a complaint You may file feedback/complaints with our office feedback form at the Office 
of Continuing Education and Padayon or directly email the office at 
ocep.upcebu@up.edu.ph. attaching the signed formal complaint. 

How complaints are processed The office receives the complaint and directs the processing to proper 
authority. 
For suggestive complaints, the office will look for proactive methods and will 
assess the validity of the complaint. 
For formal complaints, the office shall do the following: 

f. Complaint processing 
g. Complaint investigation 
h. Corrective action 
i. Complaint resolution 
j. Organizational improvement 

Contact Information of the Office of Continuing Education The number is at: 
and Padayon (032) 232 8187 (loc 212) 

 
Email at: 
ocep.upcebu@up.edu.ph 

  

 
 

265



      

 
 

UNIVERSITY OF THE PHILIPPINES CEBU 
GENDER AND DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (GAD) 

 
EXTERNAL SERVICES 
 
1. Provide Expertise for Gender Trainings and Other Gender-Related Activities 
 

Office or Division Gender and Development Office 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen, G2G – Government to Government, G2B – Government to 

Business 
Who may avail Government agencies, academic institutions, local government units, non-government 

organizations, and businesses 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Invitation or request letter from client to UP Cebu GAD Office ● Partner Agency/ NGO or requesting client. 
● Training Needs Assessment survey form (online) ● GAD office  

  
FEES 

PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION TO BE 

TIME RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Sends invitation or request letter 1.1. Receives invitation or request  None 1 day • Office Staff 
for any gender-related      letter for gender-related          Nennen Escabillas 
training/activity as resource       training/activity (online or in    

speaker or consultant. person)    
 1.2. Forwards to GAD Coordinator   • GAD  Coordinator 
        for review and endorsement 3 days     Dr. Maglasang 
 1.3. Checks for availability of   
 requested resource/s    
    

266



      
2. Submit the filled-up Training needs 2. Assesses the training needs 5 days • GAD Coordinator 

assessment survey form based on the survey form to      Dr. Maglasang 
 design the talk/ training module    
    
    

3.  Confirmms the response to the 3. Replies to the invitation/ request  • Office Staff 
invitation/request for gender for gender training or speaking 1 Day Nennen 
training and/or resource speaker engagement after TO      Escabillas 

3.1  Send Bio-note/ CV of Speaker 
3.2  Requirement for Training  
3.3 Attendance Sheet 
3.4 Evaluation Form 

TOTAL None 10 working days  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

267



      

2. Extend Technical Support for SIDLAK Gender Resource Center 7 and Its Partners 
 

Office or Division Gender and Development Office 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen, G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail Government agencies, academic institutions, local government units, and 

non-government organizations in partnership with SIDLAK GRC 7 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Request letter from client to the Chancellor  ● SIDLAK GRC7 partner agencies 
● SIDLAK GRC 7 partners profile  

FEES 
PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION TO BE PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
TIME 

PAID 
1. Sends the invitation/  letter 1.1 Receives the letter request and/or None 3 days •  Office Staff 

request addressed to the invitation (online or in-person              Nennen Escabillas 

Chancellor, for technical 1.2 Forwards to GAD Coordinator      
assistance or venue to be       for  endorsement   

used 1.3.Forwards to Chancellor/VCA’s         
        office for approval   
 1.4.Waits for the approval or      
        disapproval of the request  •    GAD Coordinator 
 1.5.Identify availability of the             Dr. Maglasang 

 requested resource/s –venue and   
persons   

  
2. Calls the GAD Office Staff  •     Office Staff 

2. Informs the client of whether the 
to follow up on the        1 day         Nennen Escabillas 

request has been accepted or 
response to the request        

declined 
3. Confirms the response to 2 Days •    Office Staff

2.1 Confirms the venue /or facilities 
the technical support or Nennen Escabillas

2.2 Send Bio-notes/ CV  
venue to be used 2.3 Attendance Sheet 

2.4 Evaluation Form 
TOTAL None 7 working days  

268



      

 
3. Use of UP Cebu Infrastructure and/or Facilities for GAD Mainstreaming Activities  

 
Office or Division Gender and Development Office 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen, G2G – Government to Government, G2B – Government 

to Business 
Who may avail Government agencies, academic institutions, local government units, non-government 

organizations, businesses and UP Cebu Students 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
● Request letter addressed to the Chancellor through proper channels ● Letter from requesting client 
● Reservation form (online) ● UP Cebu website 
● Receipt of payment for the requested use of infrastructure and/or facilities ● UP Cebu Cash Office 

 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSIN PERSON 
PAID G TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Sends  letter request addressed to 1.1 Receives letter request None 2 days •    Office Staff 
the Chancellor through the proper 1.2. Evaluate request in terms of the         Nennen Escabillas 
channel GAD mainstreaming framework   •    GAD Coordinator  

 1.2. Endorses or not endorse the          Dr. Maglasang 
 request    
 1.3. Routes the client’s letter to the   • Office Staff 

Chancellor through proper   Nennen Escabillas 
 channels    
     

2. Calls GAD Office Staff to be 2. Informs client of approval or None  2 days • Office Staff  
informed of the response to the disapproval (gives out the reason   Nennen Escabillas 
request for example non-availability of    

 facility/structure)       CMO- Jho Alcantara 
 

 

 
     
 
 
     
 
     
 

269



      
 
     
  

1 day  
3. Do an ocular inspection of the  

3. Ensures that the online •   Accounting Office Staff 
infrastructure and/or facilities if None   

reservation form is completed and Floredith Selerio 
available. When the request is   

signed to block off the date and  
approved, fills-in the online   

gets a copy of the reservation form  
reservation form   

  
  

   
 1 day 

4. Check the rental cost for using UP 4. Verifies the necessary logistical  
None  

Cebu infrastructure and/or facilities needs of the client for infrastructure   • Cash Office Staff 
computed at the Accounting Office facilities and/or equipment to be      Theresa Barcena 

 used    
     
   10 min  

5. Shows copy of reservation form to 5. Requests for photocopy of OR Fees may   
the Cash Office and pays for from Cash office for payment for vary  • GAD Office Staff 
corresponding fees  the use of requested infrastructure according to  Nennen EScabillass 

 and/or facilities the   
  requested   
  infrastructure 1 day 

6. Calls or emails GAD Office for the 6. Facilitates readiness of the and/or  
readiness of the requested requested infrastructure and/or facilities  
infrastructure and/or facilities facilities (by FPOC)  

   
  

 
TOTAL None 7 working  

days & 10 min 
 

 

 

 

270



      

INTERNAL SERVICES 
 

1. Facilitate Gender Training and Other Gender-Related Activities for UP Cebu Constituents 
 

Office or Division Gender and Development Office 
Classification Highly Technical 

 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen  
Who may avail UP Cebu Faculty & Staff & Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
● Invitation or request letter to the GAD Office ● Clients- (UPC Faculty, Staff & Students) 
● Needs assessment survey form (online) ● GAD Office 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Sends invitation or request letter 1.1. Receives invitation or None 1 day • Office Staff 

for gender-related training/activity request letter for gender-  Nennen Escabillas 
to the GAD Office  related training/activity   

 1.2 Secures the endorsement of   
 the GAD Coordinator   
    
    

2. Fills in the online training needs 2.1. Receive and review the 3 days • Office Staff 
assessment survey form results of the training needs         Nennen Escabillas 

 2.2. Checks available resources   
 (GAD experts and resources)   
    

3. Confirm with the GAD Office in 3. Accepts invitation/ letter or 1 day • GAD Coordinator 
terms of (a) a response to the   request for gender training and    Dr. Maglasang 
invitation/ request and (b) any confirm on the final schedule,   
feedback from the GAD content, and number of   
Coordinator participants     

     

271



      
    
    • Office Staff 
4. Attends the Gender Training Facilitates and prepares the ff.: Basic-1 to 3 days      Nennen Escabillas 
(online or Face to face) and 4.1 Attendance Sheet Advanced days to 5  

Gender-Related activities 4.2 Evaluation form days •    GAD Coordinator 
    Dr. Maglasang 
 

•     PCW GAD     
    Resource Pool 

 
 
 

TOTAL None 13 working days  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

272



      

2. Facilitate logistical support to UP Cebu students for GAD-related activities 

Office or Division Gender and Development Office 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government 

G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail UP Cebu constituents 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Request letter addressed to the Chancellor through proper channels ● Letter from client-UP students 
● Line item budget ● Line item budget from client 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Sends request letter, with line 1.1. Receives request letter with None 15 min  • GAD Office Staff 

item budget, addressed to the line-item budget         Nennen Escabillas 
Chancellor through proper 1.2. Routes request letter to    
channels Budget office, Campus none 2 days  

 Maintenance Office, & Office of    
 the Vice Chancellor     
 1.3. Checks final action form none        30 min  
 Chancellor either endorses or    
 does not endorse    
     

2. Contact GAD Office staff to 2. Informs client of approval or none 1 day • GAD Office Staff 
know what the Chancellor’s disapproval of a request   Nennen Escabillas 
response to the request     

     
3. Facilitates  receipt of logistical 3. Provide requested logistical   • GAD Office Staff 

support support to UP Cebu students none 1 day and  Nennen Escabillas 
 3.1 Attendance Sheet 15 in 

3.2 Evaluation Form  
TOTAL None 4 working days  

and 1 hour 

273



      

3. Use of Infrastructure and/or Facilities for UP Cebu GAD Mainstreaming Activities 
 

Office or Division Gender and Development Office 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail UP Cebu Faculty and Staff & Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
● Request letter to addressed to the Chancellor through proper channels ● Letter from client 
● Reservation form (online) ● UP Cebu Website 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Sends request letter addressed to the 1.1 Receives request letter   30 min • Office Staff 

Chancellor through proper channels 12. Endorses and emails the  2 days    Nennen Escabillas 
 

 client’s letter to the Campus   
• GAD Coordinator 

 Maintenance Office, OVCAA,   
Dr. Maglasang 

 & Office of the Chancellor    
     

2. Calls UP Cebu GAD Office to follow up 2. Informs client of approval or Fees vary         30 min  • Office Staff 
on the Chancellor’s response to the disapproval of the request according to      Nennen Escabillas 
request  the requested   

  infrastructure  
 and/or facilities 

  
 

3.If the request is approved, fill up the 3. When the request is 1 day • Office Staff 
online reservation form at the UP Cebu approved, receive a copy of      Nennen Escabillas 
Website  the reservation form   

    
4. Have the cost for using UP Cebu 4. Assess the estimated cost for 1 day • Accounting Staff  

infrastructure and/or facilities computed the use of requested  Floredith Selerio 
at the Accounting Office infrastructure and/or facilities   

    
    
    

274



      
    
5. Proceeds to Cash Office with the pdf 5. Accepts payment for the use 1 day • Cash Office Staff 

file of the reservation for payment  of requested infrastructure  Theresa Barcena 
 and/or facilities   
    
    

6. Gives copy of the reservation form and 6. Follows up CMO for final  
• Office Staff 

OR to the OVCA, CMO and Security. dates and copy of reservation 1 day 
     Nennen Escabillas 

 form and logistical needs  
 

 received  
 

   
 

   
7. Confirms GAD Office for the readiness 7. Facilitate readiness of the   

of the requested infrastructure and/or requested infrastructure and/or 3 days • Office Staff 
facilities facilities     Nennen Escabillas 

7.1 Attendance Sheet   
7.2 Evaluation Form  
 

TOTAL None 10 working  
days and 1 hr 

 

DIRECTORY OF GAD PERSONNEL: FULL NAME EMAIL ADDRESS 

GAD COORDINATOR Dr. Annabelle G. Maglasang, agmaglasang@up.edu.ph or 
Registered Guidance Counselor annabellemaglasang@gmail.com 

GAD OFFICE STAFF Ms. Nennen E. Escabillas neescabillas@up.edu.ph 

 

 

275



      

FEEDBACK AND COMPLAINTS MECHANISM 

Feedback may filed through the office using the feedback form at the                                                
How to send feedback Gender and Development Office (GAD) or by sending an email to gad.upcebu@up.edu.ph  

The GAD office receives the feedback and considers its merit and proactive solutions 
How feedback is processed through the following: 

1. Reevaluation of process 
2. Corrective action 
3. Organizational improvement 

Feedback may be filed through the office using the feedback form at the Gender 
How to file a complaint and Development Office or sending an email to gad.upcebu@up.edu.ph, with the 

attached signed formal feedback/complaint. 

The office receives the complaint and directs the processing to proper authority. 
How complaints are processed For suggestive complaints, the office assesses the validity of the complaint and 

considers proactive methods in response. For formal complaints, the office conducts 
the following: 

a. Complaint processing 
b. Complaint investigation 
c. Corrective action 
d. Complaint resolution 
e. Organizational improvement 

Contact Information of the Telephone number: (032) 232 8187 or 232-2642 (loc 211) 
Gender and Development Office  Email: gad.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
(GAD)  

276



      

 277



 

TEACHING AND LEARNING RESOURCE CENTER (TLRC) 
 
INTERNAL SERVICES 
 

1. VLE Course Site Creation and Enrollment of Students 
To enroll students in VLE Course Site 
 

Office of Division TLRC 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – internal  
Who may avail Teachers 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. SAIS Printout from the OUR or Excel electronic copy sent to 2. OUR (SAIS printout or Excel electronic copy) 

lrc.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Hands the SAIS printout or 1. Receives requirements None 15 Days Administrative Aide 
the electronic copy to the 1.1 Processes request TLRC 

TLRC Admin. Aide.  
2. Gets the account names and 2. Releases the None 1 Day Coordinator 

primary passkeys (for user completed credentials TLRC 

account creation). to client. 
TOTAL None 16 Days  

  

 
 

278



 

2. ILC-AVR and TLRC-AVR Reservation and Use 
Facilitate ILC-AVR and TLRC-AVR Reservation and Use 
 
Office of Division TLRC 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C, G2B, G2G 
Who may avail UP Cebu, Government, Private/Business 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. General Request form (5 copies) 1. VCA or CMO (general request form) 

PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

TIME 
1. Hands over the properly 1. Receives requirements None 1 Day 

filled up General Request 1.1 Blocks the schedules.  Administrative Aide 
Form.  1.2 Endorses or not endorses TLRC 

 the request. 
- Forwards endorsed 2. Approves or disapproves ILC Room - PHP 350 3 Days 

General Request Form to request. per hour 
the Office of the Vice- AC – number of AC x 
Chancellor for PHP 100 per hour 

Administrative Aide 
Administration (OVCA) Sound System – PHP 

Office of the Vice Chancellor 
150 per hour 

for Administration 
LED projector – PHP 
150 per hour 
Table Fee – None 
Chairs - None 

2. Hands over a copy of the 3. Receives the copy of the None  
General Request Form to approved General Request 

Administrative Aide 
TLRC Form 

TLRC 
3.1 Confirmation of blocked 

schedule 
TOTAL ILC Room - PHP 350 4 Days 

 
per hour 

 
 

279



 

AC – number of AC x 
PHP 100 per hour 
Sound System – PHP 
150 per hour 
LED projector – PHP 
150 per hour 
Table Fee – None 
Chairs - None 

  

 
 

280



 

3. Tutorial, Seminar, and Training Coordination and Facilitation 
Facilitation and Coordination of Tutorial, Seminar, and Training 
 
Office of Division TLRC 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – internal  
Who may avail Teachers, Students, and Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. Properly made letter of request:  

1.1 Request Title 
1.2 Rationale 
1.3 Date or Schedules of Implementation 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Hands over the 1. Receives requirements. None 7 Days 

requirements. 1.1 Endorses or not endorses 
Administrative Aide 

1.2 Creates and finalizes 
TLRC 

proposals based on the 
request 

 2. Routes the proposal to proper None 12 Days Administrative Aide 
channels for approval. TLRC 

2. Coordinates with TLRC for 3. Coordinates with the client for None 3 Days 
Coordinator 

the implementation of the the implementation of the 
TLRC 

approved request approved request.  
TOTAL None 22 Days  

  

 
 

281



 

4. TLRC Equipment or Material Acquisition through Borrowing 
Authorization of borrowing of TLRC Equipment or Material Acquisition 

 
Office of Division TLRC 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – internal  
Who may avail Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. TLRC – Form 001 or the Borrower’s Slip TLRC 
2. UP ID 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Hands over properly filled 1. Receives requirements. None 3 Days 

Borrower’s Slip and UP ID. 1.1 Approves or Disapproves  Administrative Aide 
1.1. If approved, accepts of 1.2 Releases the article TLRC 

article.   
2. Hands over properly filled 2. Receives the clearance form.  1 Day 

clearance.  2.1 Receives the article for 
1.1 If the article was inspection after use.  

returned without 2.2 Clearance or Non-clearance Administrative Aide 
damage, client will be of the borrower. TLRC 
cleared. * For non-clearance due to 

damage to article, article’s cost will 
be paid for by the borrower. 

TOTAL None 4 Days  
 

 
 

282



 

FEEDBACK AND COMPLAINTS MECHANISM 
 
How to send feedback You may login in the TLRC Feedback form at: 

https://forms.gle/pxZpYPogxt9RGi3F9 
or directly email the office at tlrc.upcebu@up.edu.ph  

How feedbacks are processed The office receives and sort the feedback. For suggestions, the 
office investigates proactive solutions or reevaluation of protocols. 

1. Reevaluation of process 
2. Corrective action 
3. Organizational improvement  

How to file a complaint You may login in the TLRC Feedback form at: 
https://forms.gle/pxZpYPogxt9RGi3F9 
or directly email the office at tlrc.upcebu@up.edu.ph attaching the 
signed formal complaint. 

How complaints are processed 1. The office receives the complaint and directs the processing to 
proper authority.  
1.1 For suggestive complaints, the office will look for proactive 

methods and will assess the validity of the complaint.  
2. For formal complaints, the office shall do the following: 

1.2 Complaint processing 
1.3 Complaint investigation 
1.4 Corrective action 
1.5 Complaint resolution 
1.6 Organizational improvement 

Contact information of TLRC The numbers are at:  
(032) 232 8187 local 314 
 
Email at: 
tlrc.upcebu@up.edu.ph 

 

 
 

283



 

 
NATIONAL SERVICE TRAINING PROGRAM (NSTP) 

 
EXTERNAL SERVICES 
 
1.  Honorarium of Resource Speaker/s for plenary session, trainings, and other services 
Processing of honorarium of resource speaker/s for plenary session, trainings, and other services. 
     
Office or Division: NSTP-CWTS Office 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2G – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail: Resource Speaker (General Public) 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 NSTPW-CWTS Office 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
Accomplish Contract of 1. Receives document and forwards it to the None 3 Days Staff 
Service pertinent signatory - review and sign  NSTP-CWTS 

 
Coordinator 

NSTP-CWTS 
 2. Prepares Disbursement Voucher (DV),  2 Days Staff 

Obligation Request (OBR), and Certificate of NSTP-CWTS 
Appearance, and forwards them to the  
Coordinator - review and sign Coordinator 

NSTP-CWTS 
 3. Scans DV, OBR, and other attachments, and  1 Day Staff 

uploads them to UIS NSTP-CWTS 
 

 4. Forwards documents to Budget Office for  1 Day Staff 
 endorsement/approval NSTP-CWTS 

 
Staff 

Budget Office 
TOTAL None 7 Days  

 

284



 

 
1. Requesting of Data from Barangays 

Requesting of Serial Numbers from CHED, cross enrollees for ROTC, letters to the different barangays re: possible projects etc.   
     
Office or Division: NSTP-CWTS Office 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen, G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail: Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
  

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
Secures letter request 1. Receives document and forwards it None 2 Days  Staff 

to the Coordinator - review and NSTP-CWTS 

sign  
Coordinator 

NSTP-CWTS 
 2. Returns the document to the Client         1 Day 

Staff 
NSTP-CWTS 

 3. Forwards document to Pertinent  1 Day Staff 
Office NSTP-CWTS 

 
Pertinent Office 

TOTAL None 4 Days  
 

285



 

 
INTERNAL SERVICES 
 
1. Basic Requests regarding Lecturers, Equipment, Venue. 
Request to hire and renew appointment of lecturers, equipment and materials, venue usage and event budget etc.  
 
Office or Division: NSTP-CWTS Office 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail: Program, Faculty, Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
  

PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO BE PAID PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

TIME 
Secures letter request 1. Receives document and forwards it None 2 Days  Staff 

to the Coordinator - review and  NSTP-CWTS 
sign.  

Coordinator 
NSTP-CWTS 

2. Returns the document to the client.  1 Day 
Staff 

NSTP-CWTS 

3. Forwards document to pertinent 1 Day Staff 
office.  NSTP-CWTS 

 
Pertinent Office 

TOTAL None 4 Days  

 
 

286



 

 
2. Processing of Salary and Honorarium 

Processing of monthly salary and honorarium of lecturers, coordinator, and staff 
 

Office or Division: NSTP-CWTS Office 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail: NSTP-CWTS Lecturer, NSTP-CWTS Coordinator 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 NSTP-CWTS Office 

PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING TIME 

RESPONSIBLE 
Accomplish Daily Time 1. Receives document (DTR) None 3 Days Staff 
Record (DTR) and forwards it to the NSTP-CWTS 

Coordinator - review and  
sign Coordinator 

NSTP-CWTS 
2. Prepares Disbursement 2 Days 

Voucher (DV) and  Staff 
Obligation Request and NSTP-CWTS 
Status (OBR), and  
forwards them to the Coordinator 
Coordinator - review and NSTP-CWTS 
sign 

3. Scans DV, OBR, and 1 Day 
Staff 

other attachments, and 
NSTP-CWTS 

uploads them to UIS 
4. Forwards documents to 1 Day Staff 

Budget Office for NSTP-CWTS 
endorsement/ approval  

Staff 
Budget Office 

TOTAL None 7 Days  
 

287



 

 
3. Processing of Change in Matriculation  
Processing of Change in matriculation of students during enrolment 
 
Office or Division: NSTP-CWTS Office 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail: Student 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Originating Office of the College Secretary (OCS) 

PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO BE PAID PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

TIME 
Accomplishes 1. Receives document and forwards it None 3 Days Staff 
Add/Change to NSTP-CWTS Lecturers and NSTP-CWTS 

Matriculation Form Coordinator - review and sign  
Coordinator 

NSTP-CWTS 
 

Lecturers 
2. Forwards document to Client’s 1 Day Staff 

Originating Office of the College  NSTP-CWTS 
Secretary and gets a copy   

Staff 
Office of the College 

Secretary 
TOTAL None 4 Days  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

288



 

FEEDBACK AND COMPLAINTS MECHANISM 
 

How to send feedback Feedback may be filed through the office using the feedback form at the 
National Service Training Program (NSTP) or by sending an email to 
nstp.upcebu@up.edu.ph  

How feedback is processed The NSTP office receives the feedback and considers its merit and proactive 
solutions through the following: 

1. Reevaluation of process 
2. Corrective action 
3. Organizational improvement  

How to file a complaint Feedback may be filed through the office using feedback form at the National 
Service Training Program (NSTP) or sending an email to 
nstp.upcebu@up.edu.ph, with the attached signed formal feedback/complaint. 

How complaints are processed The office receives the complaint and directs the processing to proper authority.  
For suggestive complaints, the office assesses the validity of the complaint and 
considers proactive methods in response. 
For formal complaints, the office shall do the following: 

a. Complaint processing 
b. Complaint investigation 
c. Corrective action 
d. Complaint resolution 
e. Organizational improvement 

Contact Information of NSTP Telephone number: 
(032) 232 8187 or 232-2642 (local 207) 
 
Email: 
nstp.upcebu@up.edu.ph 

 
 
 
 
 

 

289



 

VIII. LIST OF OFFICES 
 

Office Address Contact Information 
(032) 231 3086 

Office of the Chancellor 1F Administration Building (032) 232 8185 
(032) 233 8203 local 103 

Technology Transfer and Business Development 
3F Arts and Sciences Building 208 

Office 
Legal Office 2F Administration Building 125 
Public Information Office 2F TIC Building, Flip Facility 313 
Budget Office 1F Administration Building 122 
Ugnayan ng Pahinungód Office 2F Arts and Sciences Building 212 
Office of the Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs 1F Administration Building 124 
Office of International Linkages 2F Arts and Sciences Building 211 
Office of the University Registrar 1F Administration Building 120 
Office of Student Affairs 2F Administration Building 115 
University Library 1F Performing Arts Hall 117 
Central Visayas Studies Center 2F Arts and Sciences Building 209 
Office of Continuing Education and Padayon 2F Arts and Sciences Building 212 
Gender and Development 2F Arts and Sciences Building 211 
Teaching Learning Resource Center 1F Undergrad Building 110 
National Service Training Program 2F Arts and Sciences Building 207 
Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administration 1F Administration Building 123 
Accounting Office 1F Administration Building 104 
Cash Office 1F Administration Building 101 
Campus Maintenance Office 2F TIC Building 306 
Health Services Unit 1F TIC Building 305 
Human Resource Development Office 2F Administration Building 119 
Information Technology Center 3F Arts and Sciences Building 202 
Office of the Campus Architect 2F Administration Building 127 
Safety and Security Unit 2F TIC Building 312 
Supply Property Management Office 1F Administration Building 121 
College of Communication, Art, and Design 2F Undergrad Building 315 

290



 

College of Science 1F Arts and Sciences Building 311 
College of Social Sciences 1F Arts and Sciences Building 203 
College of Social Science (Masters of Education 

1F Arts and Sciences Building 203 
Program) 
College of Social Sciences (High School Program) 1F High School Building 301 
School of Management School of Management Building 304 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

291



 

 
OFFICE OF THE VICE CHANCELLOR FOR ADMINISTRATION (OVCA) 

 
EXTERNAL SERVICES 
 

1. Review endorsement/ approval* of requests for use of facilities and equipment  
 
The Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administration (OVCA) checks and/or endorses all requests from duly accredited student 
organizations of UP Cebu, other schools, other government agencies, or private entities for use of UP Cebu facilities and equipment.  
 

Office or Division Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administration 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen;  

G2G - Government to Government 
Who may avail UP Cebu Students, Walk-in Clients, Schools, Government Agencies, Private Sector  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Letter request addressed to the Chancellor, through the  

Vice Chancellor for Administration Campus Maintenance Office (CMO) 
 Reservation Form  
 CMO clearance  
 Rental computation from the Accounting Office  

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO BE PROCESSING TME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Fills up the Facility and 1. Checks As per approved 30 Minutes CMO Staff 
Equipment Reservation email/airslate.com for FPOC (Fiscal  Campus Maintenance 
form using the links online reservations Policy and Office 
found on UP Cebu’s received and endorses or Operations 
website under online not endorse the Committee) fees 
forms. Attaches their requested facility or 
request letter as equipment’s availability 
needed  
 

292



 

 2. Checks 30 Minutes OVCA Staff 
email/airslate.com for 
online reservations 
received and approves or 
disapproves the 
requested facility or 
equipment depending on 
the action 
(endorsement/non-
endorsement) from the 
Campus Maintenance 
Office (CMO) 
 

2.  Pays approved 3.  Cash Office issues Official 10 Minutes Cash Office Staff          
requests  Receipt (O.R.)  Cash Office 

     2.1 Online payment           
           Client proceeds to 
           the website for  
           online payment.  
            

a. Direct to the 
Cash 

Office 
           Prints the online 
           approved 
           reservation form 
           and presents it to  
           the Cashier’s Office 
           for payment 
3. Clients who pays 4.  Receives the stamped 10 Minutes OVCA Staff 

directly to the paid reservation form  Office of the Vice 
Cashier’s Officer gives  Chancellor for 
a copy of the paid Administration 
reservation form to the CMO Staff 

293



 

Campus Maintenance Campus Maintenance 
Office (CMO), Safety Office 
and Security Unit 
(SSU) for records 
purposes. 
 
For the online 
payments, a notification 
will be sent to the 
client, Accounting 
Office, CMO, SSU, and 
OVCA for reference 
and records purposes. 

TOTAL As per approved 1 Hour,  
FPOC fees 20 Minutes 

 
*Note: Regular and standard requests of UP Cebu students are approved at the level of the VCA. However, all requests for waiver of 
fees and/or requests for discounts, and other ambiguous issues will be endorsed by the VCA to the Office of the Chancellor, for the 
Chancellor’s final decision.    

 

2. Application for Car Sticker 
 
The OVCA is in charge of approving and releasing car sticker applications. 

 
Office or Division Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administration 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen 

G2B - Government to Business 
Who may avail UP Alumni, Service Providers, Contractors and Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Car Sticker Application Form   
 OR, CR, and Driver’s License (1 photocopy of each Guard House Entrance Gate 

294



 

document)  
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING TME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

1. Gets application form from 1. Safety and Security  1 Day The guard on duty at the 
the guard house at the Unit (SSU) checks Entrance Gate 
Entrance Gate; Fills in the and endorses the Safety and Security Officer 
form then attaches OR, filled-up application (SSO) 
CR, and Driver’s license; form and forwards it Safety and Security Unit 
and Submits to the Guard to the OVCA  
at Entrance Gate 

2. Claims approved 2.   Receives and  1 Day OVCA Staff & Vice 
application from the approves the Chancellor for 
OVCA application and Administration (VCA) 

return the form to the Office of the Vice 
client for payment Chancellor for 

Administration 
 

3. Pays at the Cashier’s 3.   Cashier Office For Alumni:  1st 10 Minutes Cash Office Staff           
Office issues Official Sticker Cash Office 

Receipt PHP300.00  
Succeeding 

PHP500.00 
 
For  
Service Providers: 
1st sticker  

PHP500.00 
Succeeding 

PHP500.00 
Motorcycle 

PHP300.00 
4. Presents Official Receipt 5. Review and issue  10 Minutes OVCA Staff          

to OVCA and claims the the Car Sticker Office of the Vice 
car sticker Chancellor for 

Administration 

295



 

TOTAL For Alumni:  1st 2 Days,  
Sticker 20 Minutes 

PHP300.00  
Succeeding 

PHP500.00 
For  
Service Providers: 
1st sticker  

PHP500.00 
Succeeding 

PHP500.00 
Motorcycle 

PHP300.00 
 

296



 

 

3. Procurement of Plane Tickets 

 
All requests for purchases of plane tickets are procured through the OVCA. 

 
Office or Division Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administration 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government of Citizen 
Who may avail Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE      
 Approved copy of Travel Order  
 Budget approved copy of Obligation Request (ObR)  From the staff of the college/office/traveler 

  
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO PROCESSING TME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID 
1.  Submits/ presents the 1.1.Receives and reviews None 20 minutes OVCA Staff 

approved travel order and the Travel Order and Office of the Vice Chancellor 
approved ObR ObR form  for Administration 

1.2Purchases the plane 1 Day OVCA Staff 
ticket to Philippine Office of the Vice Chancellor 
Airlines via email. for Administration 

 
1.3Prints the ticket and 20 minutes OVCA Staff 

release the printed ticket Office of the Vice Chancellor 
to the concerned traveler for Administration 

2.  Receives the printed plane    
ticket    

TOTAL None 1 Day,   
40 Minutes 

  

297



 

 

4. Response and action to requests for consultations, liaisons, grievances, and complaints on various 
concerns regarding the use of facilities, systems, and processes 

 
All requests related to consultations, grievances, or complaints go through the OVCA for comments and/or review before it is 
forwarded to the Chancellor for final action.  

 
Office or Division Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administration 
Classification Highly Technical  
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen;  

G2B - Government to Business 
G2G -  Government to Government 

Who may avail Students, Government Agencies, Contractors, Other External Clients 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

 Letter from the concerned/relevant offices and individuals   
 From the concerned individual 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO PROCESSING TME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
BE PAID 

1.  Submits letter of complaint 1.1 Receives, reviews, and None 18 Days OVCA Staff and Vice 
addressed to the Chancellor takes action (endorses or Chancellor for 
through the Vice Chancellor comments)  Administration (VCA) 
for Administration Office of the Vice 

Chancellor for 
Administration 

 1.2 Records and forwards the 2 Days OVCA Staff  
letter of complaint to the Office of the Vice 
Office of the Chancellor Chancellor for 
(OC) for action/decision  Administration 

2.  Claims the document with   OC Staff 
Chancellor’s action (approval Office of the Chancellor 
/ disapproval) from the Office 
of the Chancellor (OC) 

TOTAL None 20 Days  

298



 

 
5. Action on special requests of, or liaison, with contractors for various concerns (e.g. time extension, 

Liquidated Damages concerns, site instruction, variation) 
 
Requests from the contractors go through the OVCA for review and/or action before it is being endorsed to the Chancellor’s Office for 
approval. 

 
Office or Division Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administration 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2B - Government to Business 
Who may avail Contractor 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE   
 Letter addressed to the Chancellor with OCA’s Office of the Campus Architect 

endorsement 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO PROCESSING TME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID 
1. Submits letter through the 1.1 Receives, reviews, None 6 Days OVCA Staff & Vice 

Office of the Campus consults architects, Chancellor for 
Architect (OCA), which then engineers, and other Administration (VCA) 
endorses and forwards the persons involved in the Office of the Vice 
letter request through the project and takes action Chancellor for 
Vice Chancellor for on the request  Administration 
Administration   

 
 
 

1.2 Records and forwards 1 Day OVCA Staff  
letter request to OC for Office of the Vice 
action (approval / Chancellor for 
disapproval) Administration 

 
2. Claims the document with   OC Staff 

Chancellor’s action (approval Office of the Chancellor 

299



 

/ disapproval) from the Office 
of the Chancellor (OC) 

TOTAL None 7 Days  
 
 
 

300



 

 

INTERNAL SERVICES 

1. Review and approval of requests for use of facilities, equipment and vehicles 

 
The OVCA checks and approves* all of UP Cebu colleges’, administrative offices’ activities and corresponding requests for use of 
equipment, facilities, and vehicles.    
 

Office or Division Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administration 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen;  

G2G - Government to Government 
Who may avail UP Cebu Students, Walk-in Clients, Schools, Government Agencies, Private Sector  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Letter request addressed to the Chancellor, through the  

Vice Chancellor for Administration Campus Maintenance Office (CMO) 
 Reservation Form  
 CMO clearance  
 Rental computation from the Accounting Office  

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO BE PROCESSING TME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Fills up the Facility and 1. Checks As per approved 30 Minutes CMO Staff 
Equipment email/airslate.com for FPOC (Fiscal  Campus Maintenance 
Reservation form using online reservations Policy and Office 
the links found on UP received and endorses or Operations 
Cebu’s website under not endorse the Committee) fees 
online forms. Attaches requested facility or 
their request letter as equipment’s availability 
needed  
 

 2. Checks 30 Minutes OVCA Staff 
email/airslate.com for 

301



 

online reservations 
received and approves or 
disapproves the 
requested facility or 
equipment depending on 
the action 
(endorsement/non-
endorsement) from the 
Campus Maintenance 
Office (CMO) 
 

2.  Pays approved 3.  Cash Office issues Official 10 Minutes Cash Office Staff          
requests  Receipt (O.R.)  Cash Office 

     2.1 Online Payment           
           Client proceeds to 
           the website for  
           online payment.  
            

2.2 Direct to the Cash 
Office 

           Prints the online 
           approved 
           reservation form 
           and presents it to  
           the Cashier’s Office 
           for payment 
3. Clients who pays 4.  Receives the stamped 10 Minutes OVCA Staff 

directly to the paid reservation form  Office of the Vice 
Cashier’s Officer gives  Chancellor for 
a copy of the paid Administration 
reservation form to the CMO Staff 
Campus Maintenance Campus Maintenance 
Office (CMO), Safety Office 
and Security Unit 

302



 

(SSU) for records 
purposes. 
 
For the online 
payments, a notification 
will be sent to the 
client, Accounting 
Office, CMO, SSU, and 
OVCA for reference 
and records purposes. 

TOTAL As per approved 1 Hour,  
FPOC fees 20 Minutes 

*Note: Regular and standard requests of UP Cebu students are approved at the level of the VCA. However, all requests for waiver of 
fees and/or requests for discounts, and other ambiguous issues will be endorsed by the VCA to the Office of the Chancellor, for the 
Chancellor’s final decision.    

 

303



 

2. Application for Car Sticker  
 
The OVCA is in charge of approving and releasing the car sticker applications. 
 

Office or Division Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administration 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty, REPS, Administrative Staff  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Car Sticker Application Form   
 OR, CR, and Driver’s License (1 photocopy of each Guard House Entrance Gate 

document)  
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING TME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

1. Client gets application 1. Safety and Security  1 Day The Guard on duty at the 
form from the guard house Unit (SSU) checks Entrance Gate 
at the entrance gate; Fills and endorses the Safety and Security Officer 
in the form then attaches filled-up application (SSO) 
OR, CR, and Driver’s form to the OVCA Safety and Security Unit 
license and submits it to  
the Guard at Entrance 
Gate 

2. Claims approved 2. Approves the 1 Day Vice Chancellor for 
application from the OVCA application and Administration (VCA) and 

return the form to OVCA Staff         Office of 
the client for the Vice Chancellor for 
payment Administration 

 
3. Pays at the Cashier’s 3. Issues Official For Faculty & 10 Minutes Cash Office Staff           

Office Receipt Permanent Staff:  Cash Office 
1st Sticker – FREE, 
Succeeding Sticker 

PHP800.00 
 

304



 

For Contractual 
Employees:  1st 
Sticker- 

PHP300.00 
Succeeding Sticker 

PHP500.00 
For Motorcycle 

PHP300.00 
4. Presents Official receipt to 4. Reviews and issues  10 Minutes OVCA Staff  

OVCA and claim the Car the Car Sticker Office of the Vice 
Sticker Chancellor for 

Administration 
TOTAL For Faculty & 2 Days,  

Permanent Staff:  20 Minutes 
1st Sticker – FREE, 
Succeeding Sticker 

PHP800.00 
For Contractual 
Employees: 1st 
Sticker- 

PHP300.00 
Succeeding Sticker 

PHP500.00 
For Motorcycle 

PHP300.00 
 

305



 

 

3. Endorsement and/or approvals of Purchase Requests (PRs), Obligation Requests (ObRs), Disbursement 
Vouchers (DVs) and Purchase Orders (POs) (below PhP1,000,000) 
 
The OVCA is in charge of approving and/or endorsing purchase and obligation requests, disbursements, and purchase orders that 
are below One Million Pesos. 
 

Office or Division Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administration 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Administrative Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 PR (Purchase Requests)                                                                                            Administrative 
 ObR (Obligation Requests) Staff 
 DV (Disbursement Vouchers) 
 PO (Purchase Orders) 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO BE PROCESSING TME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Staff submits PRs, 1.1Receives, reviews and None 2 Days OVCA Staff and Vice 
ObRs, DVs, and POs approves Chancellor for Administration 

 (VCA) 
 Office of the Vice Chancellor 
 for Administration 
 
1.2Records and forwards the 2 Hours OVCA Staff 

approved PRs, ObRs, and  Office of the Vice Chancellor 
POs to the Supply Property for Administration 
and Management Office 
(SPMO), Bids and Awards 
Committee (BAC) and 
forwards approved DVs to the 
Accounting Office 

306



 

TOTAL None 2 Days  
2 Hours 

4. Signing of Cheques 
 
The Vice Chancellor for Administration is one of the signatories for cheques below P1,000,000 to be released.  

 
Office or Division Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administration 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Administrative Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Cheques with endorsement from the Cashier Cash Office 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO PROCESSING TME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
BE PAID 

1. Cash Office staff submits 1. Receives, reviews and None 2 Days OVCA Staff and Vice 
cheques for signature signs cheques Chancellor for 

 Administration (VCA) 
Office of the Vice Chancellor 

for Administration 
2. Forwards the signed 20 Minutes OVCA Staff 

cheques to the Cash Office of the Vice Chancellor 
Office for Administration 

TOTAL None 2 Days,  
20 Minutes 

 
 
 

307



 

 

5. Endorsement of Authority to Travel for Administrative Staff 
 
All administrative staff’s request for Authority to Travel goes to the OVCA for review and/or endorsement before it is forwarded to the 
Office of the Chancellor. 
 

Office or Division Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administration 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government of Citizen 
Who may avail Administrative Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Authority to Travel Form with Endorsement from HRDO with  

Letter Request Human Resource Development Office (HRDO) 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO PROCESSING TME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID 
1. Staff submits letter 1.1Receives, reviews, and None 2 Days OVCA Staff and Vice Chancellor 

request for Authority to endorses the Authority to for Administration (VCA) 
Travel addressed to the Travel  Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
Chancellor through the  Administration 
Vice Chancellor for 1.2 Records and forwards the 20 Minutes OVCA Staff 
Administration  endorsed Authority to  Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

 Travel to the Office of the  Administration 
Chancellor (OC) for action   
(Approval/ Disapproval)   

  
  
  
 

2. Claims the document from   OC Staff 
the Office of the Office of the Chancellor 
Chancellor (OC) 

TOTAL None 2 Days,  
20 Minutes 

308



 

6. Endorsement of MOAs / Project Contracts for Infrastructure, with Cooperatives and other Service 
Providers 

 
The OVCA takes charge of reviewing Memorandum of Agreements or Project Contracts before it is being forwarded to the Chancellor 
for approval. 
 

Office or Division Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administration 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Legal Office Personnel 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE                                                                     
 MOA (Memorandum of Agreements)  
 Project Contract with Endorsement from Legal Office Legal Office 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO PROCESSING TME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
BE PAID 

1. Legal Office Staff submits 1.1Receives, reviews, and None 6 Days OVCA Staff & Vice Chancellor 
MOA / Project Contracts to endorses MOAs / Project  for Administration (VCA) 
the OVCA Office of the Vice Chancellor 

 for Administration 
1.2Records and forwards 1 Day OVCA Staff 

the documents to OC for  Office of the Vice Chancellor 
action (approval /  for Administration 
disapproval)   

  
2.  Claims the document   OC Staff 

from the Office of the Office of the Chancellor 
Chancellor (OC) 

TOTAL None 7 Days  
 
 

309



 

 

7. Endorsements of candidates for employment (as Chair of Human Resource Management and Personnel 
Selection Board- HRMPSB) 

 
The Vice Chancellor for Administration is in charge of reviewing the results of applicants’ screening and endorses it to the Chancellor 
for final action (approval/disapproval).  

 
Office or Division Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administration 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Human Resource Development Office (HRDO) Personnel 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Candidates’ required documents with endorsement from Human Resource Management Officer 

HRMPSB 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO PROCESSING TME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID 
1.  The Human Resource 1.1 Receives, reviews, and None 6 Days OVCA Staff and Vice 

Management Officer submits endorses HRMPSB Chancellor for Administration 
documents to the Human documents and (VCA) 
Resource Management  forwards them to OC for Office of the Vice Chancellor 
Personnel Selection Board approval for Administration 
(HRMPSB)  

1.2 Records and forwards 1 Day OVCA Staff 
the documents to OC Office of the Vice Chancellor 
for action (approval / for Administration 
disapproval) 

2.  Gets approval / disapproval   OC Staff 
from the Office of the Office of the Chancellor 
Chancellor (OC) 

TOTAL None 7 Days  
 

310



 

 

8. Endorsement of materials to be used for infrastructure development and maintenance 
 
The Vice Chancellor for Administration is in charge of reviewing and endorsing the materials to be used for infrastructure projects to 
the Chancellor as endorsed by the architects in UP.   

 
Office or Division Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administration 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government of Citizen 
Who may avail Office of the Campus Architect (OCA) Personnel 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Letter with endorsements from OCA and end users Office of the Campus Architect (OCA) 
 Material samples and Contractor 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO BE PROCESSING TME PERSON 
PAID RESPONSIBLE 

1. The Office of the Campus 1.1Receives, reviews, and None 4 Days OVCA Staff and Vice 
Architect (OCA) submits endorses material sample  Chancellor for 
letter and material samples Administration(VCA) 
with endorsement from the Office of the Vice 
architects, engineers, and Chancellor for 
head of end-user (e.g. Administration 
Deans of colleges) 1.2Records and forwards the 1 Day OVCA Staff 

 documents to OC for action Office of the Vice 
(approval / disapproval) Chancellor for 

Administration 
 

2. Gets approval/ disapproval   OC Staff 
from the Office of the Office of the Chancellor 
Chancellor (OC) 

TOTAL None 5 Days  
 

 

311



 

 

9. Approval of PPMP (Project Procurement and Management Plan) 
 
All of the offices’ Project Procurement and Management Plans are being reviewed and approved by the Vice Chancellor for 
Administration. 

 
Office or Division Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administration 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government of Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty, REPS, Administrative Staff  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE    
 PPMP with endorsement from the Deans/Office Heads  
 End user office 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO PROCESSING TME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
BE PAID 

1. The Supply Property and 1.1Receives and reviews None 5 Days OVCA Staff 
Management Office PPMPs and forwards to Vice Chancellor 
(SPMO) submit PPMPs  the Vice Chancellor for Administration 

Administration for action Office of the Vice 
(approval / disapproval) Chancellor for 

Administration  
 

1.2 Records in the logbook all  1 Day OVCA Staff 
PPMPs that were acted Office of the Vice 
upon by the Vice Chancellor for 
Chancellor for Administration 
Administration before  
releasing the documents  

2. Gets approval/ disapproval   1 Day SPMO Staff 
from the Office of the Office of the Chancellor 
Chancellor (OC) 

TOTAL None 7 Days  
 

312



 

 
10. Approval of Bids and Awards Committee (BAC) recommendation for mode of procurement 

 
All documents or forms related to procurement with amounts not exceeding One Hundred Thousand Pesos (P100,000) go through 
the Vice Chancellor for Administration for action (approval/disapproval). 

 
Office or Division Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administration 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government of Citizen 
Who may avail SPMO; End User Offices 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE      
 Purchase Order (with endorsement from the Head of  

SPMO) Supplies Procurements Management Office (SPMO) 
 Bids and Awards Committee (BAC) 

Resolution (with endorsement from the BAC) 
 Recommendation for Mode of Procurement (RMP) (with 

endorsement from the BAC)  
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO PROCESSING TME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID 
1.  SPMO / BAC Secretariat 1.1 Receives, reviews, and None 2 Days OVCA Staff and Vice 

submits Purchase Order approves POs, BAC Chancellor for Administration 
(PO), BAC Resolutions, and Resolutions, and RMP (VCA) 
Recommendations for Mode with BAC Committee’s Office of the Vice Chancellor 
of Procurement (RMP) recommendation with the for Administration 

amount not exceeding  
PhP1,000,000 only.  

2.2 Records and forwards 1 Day OVCA Staff 
the approved POs, BAC Office of the Vice Chancellor 
Resolution, and RMP to for Administration 
SPMO  

TOTAL None 3 Days  
  
 

313



 

 

11. Procurement of Plane Tickets 
 
All requests for purchases of plane tickets are procured through the OVCA. 

 
Office or Division Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administration 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government of Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty, REPS, Administrative Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE      
 Approved copy of Travel Order  
 Budget approved copy of Obligation Request (ObR)  From the staff of the college/office/traveler 

  
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO PROCESSING TME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID 
1.  Submits/presents the 1.1Receives and reviews the None 20 minutes OVCA Staff 

approved travel order and Travel Order and ObR Office of the Vice Chancellor 
approved ObR form  for Administration 

1.2Purchases the plane 1 Day OVCA Staff 
ticket though the Office of the Vice Chancellor 
procurement service for Administration 
website  

1.3Prints the ticket and 20 minutes OVCA Staff 
release the printed ticket Office of the Vice Chancellor 
to the concerned traveler for Administration 

2.  Receives the printed plane    
ticket    

TOTAL None 1 Day,   
40 Minutes 

  

314



 

 

12. Response and action to requests for consultations, liaisons, grievances, and complaints on various 
concerns regarding the use of facilities, systems, and processes 
 
All requests related to consultations, grievances, or complaints go through the OVCA for comments and/or review before it is 
forwarded to the Chancellor for final action.  

 
Office or Division Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administration 
Classification Highly Technical  
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty, REPS and Administrative Staff and their Union representations 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Letter from the concerned/relevant offices and individuals   

 From the concerned individual 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO PROCESSING TME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID 
1.  Forwards letter of complaint 1.1 Receives, reviews, takes None 18 Days OVCA Staff and Vice 

addressed to the Chancellor action (endorses or Chancellor for 
through the Vice Chancellor comments)  Administration (VCA) 
for Administration Office of the Vice 

Chancellor for 
Administration 

 1.2 Records and forwards the 2 Days OVCA Staff  
letter of complaint to the Office of the Vice 
Office of the Chancellor Chancellor for 
(OC) for action/decision  Administration 

2.  Claims the document with   OC Staff 
Chancellor’s action (approval Office of the Chancellor 
/ disapproval) from the Office 
of the Chancellor (OC) 

TOTAL None 20 Days  
 

315



 

13. Endorsement of application of administrative personnel for fellowships (i.e. FRASDP – Faculty, REPS, 
Administrative Staff Development Program) 
 
All requests from administrative staff for fellowship applications are being screened and/or reviewed by the Vice Chancellor for 
Administration before it is forwarded to the Chancellor for final action (approval/disapproval). 

 
Office or Division Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administration 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Administrative Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Application letter with HRMPSB screening with attached  

documents required by Human Resource Development From the concerned administrative staff 
Office (HRDO) 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTIONS FEES TO BE PROCESSING TME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. HRDO submits a request 1.1 Receives, reviews, None 18 Days OVCA Staff and Vice 
application of administrative consults, and endorses Chancellor for 
personnel for fellowships (i.e. Human Resource Administration (VCA) 
FRASDP) addressed to the Management Personnel Office of the Vice 
Chancellor through the Vice Selection Board (HRMPSB) Chancellor for 
Chancellor for Administration screening  Administration 

 
 1.2 Records and forwards the 2 Days OVCA Staff 

endorsed request (i.e. Office of the Vice 
FRASDP) to the Chancellor Chancellor for 
(OC) for action Administration 

2. Claims the document with   OC Staff 
Chancellor’s action (approval / Office of the Chancellor 
disapproval) from the Office of  
the Chancellor (OC)  

TOTAL None 20 Days  
 

316



 

FEEDBACK AND COMPLAINTS 
 

FEEDBACK AND COMPLAINTS MECHANISM   

How to   send feedback               We appreciate to hear from you, kindly  
fill out the feedback form below.   

How feedbacks are processed                F e e d b  a cks will  be checked regularly and  
will be handled with strict confidentiality.     

How to file a complaint   Email us at: o vca .  upcebu@up.edu.ph   

How complaints are processed              All complaints will be handled with strict  
confidentiality at the Office of the Vice  
Chancellor fo  r Administration. .  

Contact Information of CCB,  Tel. No. (6332) 2328187 loc. 2   
PCC, ARTA   1 3 

  
 

317



 

 
 

318



 

 
ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

 
EXTERNAL SERVICES 
 

1. Issuance of Second copy of BIR 2306 and 2307 
 

This service is for contractors and suppliers who requested for the second copy of BIR Forms 2306 and 2307 for withholding tax. 
 
Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2B – Government to Business 

Who may avail Suppliers, NGW’s (Non-Government Workers), Contractors 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Letter request  Client shall secure his own request  

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Suppliers submits letter request for 1. Logs in request, retrieves None 3 Days Accounting Staff 
second copy of BIR Forms 2306 & records, encode and Accounting Office 
2307 releases the requested 

forms 
TOTAL None 3 Days  

 
  

 
 

319



 

● Replacement of Stale Checks and Cancelled Checks 

 
This service is for suppliers, organizations and contractors whose checks previously issued were not encashed, and either it was stale or 
cancelled, requests for a new check. 
 
 
Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2B – Government to Business 

G2C – Government to Citizens 

Who may avail Suppliers, Contractors 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Letter request, Payment , checks  Client shall secure his own request  

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Client submits request  1. Logs in request P50 1 Day Accounting Staff 
Accounting Office 

 2. Prepares and prints  2 Days Accounting Staff 
Disbursement Voucher;  Accounting Office 
posts in the UIS for the 
number, then routes the 
voucher to other offices for 
signature 

TOTAL P50 3 Days  

 
  

 
 

320



 

3. Voucher Processing Remittances of Withholding Tax 
 

This process is for the remittance of the withholding tax as mandated by Bureau of Internal Revenue to be done monthly. 
 

Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Highly Technical 

Type of Transaction G2B –Government to Government 

Who may avail Bureau of Internal Revenue 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Remittance List by Fund Per month Accounting Office 

Disbursement Voucher 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Bureau of Internal Revenue  Retrieves data, review, None 20 Days Accounting Staff 
(BIR) mandates all agencies encode, and print BIR form Accounting Office 

to remit withholding tax on or 2306, 2307 as requested.  

before 10th of the following 
month 

TOTAL None 20 Days  

 
  

 
 

321



 

4. Vouchers Processing – Payment to NGW’s (Non-Government Workers)   
 
This process pertains to creation of vouchers, pre audit and processing for payment. 

 
Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Complex 

Type of Transaction G2B – Government to Citizens 

Who may avail Suppliers 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Disbursement Voucher with complete attachment, OBR, DTR, COS HRDO, Unit offices where the  workers belong 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. The Units/Offices 1. Receives the documents from the in-charge None 4 Hours Accounting Staff 
responsible shall Accounting Office 
submit 
vouchers, 2. Checks the completeness of the documents 4 Hours Accounting Staff 

payroll and and the amount Accounting Office 

     supporting 
documents 

 3. Writes the account title, the UACS code, and 4 Hours Accounting Staff 
the amount Accounting Office 

4. Goes to UIS 4 Hours Accounting Staff 

Accounting Office 

5. Searches the DV number, verified the exact 4 Hours Accounting Staff 
amount. Accounting Office 

6. Checks if the attachments in the UIS is 4 Hours Accounting Staff 
complete Accounting Office 

 
 

322



 

7. Initiates and validates 4 Hours Accounting Staff 

 Accounting Office 

8. Makes Journal Entry, input the exact amount 2 Days Accounting Staff 
and check if the tax is correct Accounting Office 

9. Writes the DV & OBR number 4 Hours Accounting Staff 

 Accounting Office 

10. Writes the DV & OBR number 4 Hours Accounting Staff 
Accounting Office 

11. Prints, counter signs, forwards to 4 Hours Accounting Staff 
accountant Accounting Office 

TOTAL None 7 Days  

  
 
 
  

 
 

323



 

5. Voucher Processing – Remittance of premiums and loans 
 
This service refers to creation of vouchers, encoding, posting and printing the remittance list for payment to Government agencies 
and private companies. 

 
Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Complex 

Type of Transaction G2B – Government to Business 

G2G- Government to Government 

Who may avail SUPPLIERS 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Disbursement Voucher, Remittance List, Obligation request Accounting office 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Client requires 1. Receives list of deduction from the in-charge None 4 Hours Accounting Staff 
payment of  Accounting Office  

premiums and 
loans every 2.  Saves the file, opens the file, checks every 4 Hours Accounting Staff 

month personnel and the amount if it is in order and Accounting Office 
correct 

3. Balances the grand total of the list of deduction and 1 Day Accounting Staff 
the remittances Accounting Office 

4. Makes a DV in the UIS, input the amount and the 1 Day Accounting Staff 
words correctly Accounting Office 

5. Initiates and Validates  1 Day Accounting Staff 
Accounting Office 

 
 

324



 

6. Makes a DV in the excel 1 Day Accounting Staff 
Accounting Office 

7. Checks if the amount and the tax, and the amount in 4 Hours Accounting Staff 
words is correct Accounting Office 

8.  Makes a Journal Entry, inputs the correct amount, 4 Hours Accounting Staff 
tax, DV and OBR number Accounting Office 

 9.  Rechecks, prints and counter signs and forwards to  1 Day Accounting Staff 
official signatory Accounting Office 

TOTAL None 7 Days  

 
 
 
  

 
 

325



 

8. Pre-Audit and Processing of LIST OF DUE & DEMANDABLE ACCOUNTS PAYABLE (LDDAP) 
 

This service requires the processing of vouchers submitted to accounting office and submit the completely filled up prescribed 
LDDAP form to UP System in order for the suppliers and contractors to be paid. 
 

Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Complex 

Type of Transaction G2B – Government to Business;  G2G-Government to Government 

Who may avail Suppliers and DBM (Department of Budget and Management) 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Disbursement Voucher with complete attachments (OBR, PO/ - Accounting - Accounts Payable in-Charge 
PR/ SI/ DR/ Bid Docs if any.  - New Supplier (bank details) 

Bank Details (for new supplier) 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING TIME PERSON 
RESPONSIBLE 

1.  Client shall submit the data 1.  Requests new suppliers None 2 Days Accounting Staff 
required by accounting staff for their bank details. Accounting Office 

 2. Prepares LDDAP form 1 Day Accounting Staff 
for signing – Accountant Accounting Office 
and Chancellor  

3. Fully signed LDDAP 1 Day Accounting Staff 
form to be recorded and Accounting Office 
mailed to UP System  
and wait for advice. 

 4. To check if UP System  1 Day Accounting Staff 
has notification Accounting Office 
regarding LDDAP  
payment is ready to be 
credited to Supplier’s 
bank account 

 
 

326



 

 5. Informs Supplier to  2 Days Accounting Staff 
check their bank Accounting Office 
accounts so they can  
issue an Official Receipt 
if payment has already 
been credited to their 
accounts. 

Total None 7 Days  

 
 

  

 
 

327



 

9. Filing of Annual Reports to Bureau of Internal Revenue - Compensation Report 1604-C 
 

This service consists of collating, reviewing, encoding, and printing the alphalist for submission as mandated by Bureau of Internal 
Revenue. 

 
Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Highly Technical 

Type of Transaction G2G– Government to Government 

Who may avail This is in compliance of Bureau of Internal Revenue Rules and Regulations 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Alphalist of Faculty, Reps Staff Accounting Office 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING TIME PERSON 
PAID RESPONSIBLE 

Bureau of Internal 1. Office in-charge encodes the Annual None 13 Days Accounting Staff 
Revenue thru its Income of each employee with the Accounting Office 
Revenue corresponding Withholding Tax Due  and  
Regulations has 

Tax Withheld at the BIR program 1604CF 
mandated 
compliance of filing 2. Prints the Report and Submit to BIR 2 Days Accounting Staff 
of BIR 1604 for all Accounting Office 
employees  

TOTAL None 15 Days  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

328



 

 

  
8. Reports -Status of Funds and Financial Report of Special Projects 

 
This service is for offices with projects and trust funds who have requested the disbursements and balances of their funds. 

 
Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Complex 

Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government 

Who may avail DOST, CHED, UP System 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Report of Disbursements and Collection - Accountant 
- Cash Office 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
BE PAID TIME 

Project implementers Retrieves, reviews, compares, reconciles with None 7 Days Accounting Staff 
request the report  the records of implementer of the projects, Accounting Office 

then sign reports 

 TOTAL None 7 Days  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 
 

329



 

9. Reports -Bank Reconciliation  
 
This service requires reviewing bank deposits and checks encased and compare bank records with book records maintained by the 
office. This report is required by Commission on Audit and is done every month. 

 
Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Complex 

Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government 

Who may avail Commission on Audit; Authorized Depository Bank 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

- Bank Statement - Depository Banks (LBP & PVB) 
- Report of Checks Issued - Cash Office 
- Report of Collection 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Commission on Audit 1. Scans the Bank Statement None 1 Day Accounting Staff 
requires the report to Accounting Office 
be submitted after 
month has ended 
 2. Copies the previous month’s outstanding  1 Day Accounting Staff 
 checks issued Accounting Office 

 3. Gets the withdrawn checks based on the 1 Day Accounting Staff 
bank statement Accounting Office 

4. Sees the draft summary of reconciling items 1 Day Accounting Staff 
given by the Accountant Accounting Office 

5. When reconciled, prints the summary with 1 Day Accounting Staff 
the bank statement for Accountant signature Accounting Office 

 
 

330



 

6. Prepares also quarterly bank reconciliation 1 Day Accounting Staff 
for Time Deposit. Accounting Office 

7. Files separately for COA submission 1 Day Accounting Staff 
Accounting Office 

 TOTAL None 7 Days  

 
 
 
 
  

 
 

331



 

10. Reports - Financial Reports (Monthly, Quarterly, Year End) 
 
This service involves preparing, reviewing, encoding and printing of financial reports that are mandated by Commission on Audit, 
Department of Budget and Management and the University. 

 
Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Highly Technical 

Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government 

Who may avail Commission on Audit, University of the Philippines System, DBM (Department of 
Budget and Management) 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Report of Collection, Report of Disbursements, Bank Statements, Cash, Supply  and Property Management Office, Authorized 
Monthly Report of Supplies Issuances Depository Banks, Chief Accountant, University of the Philippines 

System 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 

 PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

The client has issued circulars on Accountant collects reports from None 20 Days Accountant 
agency regulations on submission different offices, assesses, Accounting Staff 

of reports on a monthly, quarterly summarizes, verifies reviews, Accounting Office 
posts and prints, then submits to  

and year end basis. 
UP System and other government ` 
offices 

TOTAL None 20 Days  

 

 
 

332



 

11. Assessment for Rental of Facilities  
 

This service requires assessment of fees to be paid for the use of facilities of the university. 
 

Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2B- Government to Business; G2C- Government to Citizen  

Who may avail Students, Outsiders 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Reservation form  Campus Maintenance Office (CMO) 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING TIME PERSON 
RESPONSIBLE 

1. Present accomplished 1. Office staff In-charge Per hour rate of 1 Day Accounting Staff 
reservation form signed by receives documents specific venue and Accounting Office 

the Head of CMO to ensure  equipment 

that the facility needed is 2. Assess the fees based 1 Day Accounting Staff 

available on the needed venue / Accounting Office 

equipment and the  

number of hours. 

3. Forward the reservation 1 Day Accounting Staff 
form to the Office of the Accounting Office 
Vice chancellor for  
Administration (OVCA) 
for signature. 

TOTAL Per hour rate of  

 specific venue and 3 Days 
equipment 

 

 
 

333



 

  

 
 

334



 

12. Billing for Scholars   
 
This service requires the preparation of the prescribed billing form to LGU agencies and private companies for scholars enrol led in 
the university 

 
 
Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2B – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Students  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

List of scholars to be billed  OSA 

List of scholars, Form 5 OSA Office  

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING TIME PERSON 
RESPONSIBLE 

1. The students applied 1.  Receives list of None 1 Day Accounting Staff 
to OSA for scholarship scholars enrolled for Accounting Office 

grant, then OSA that semester from 
OSA 

Personnel after 
verifying docs for 
students and awarded 2. Makes billing 2 Days Accounting Staff 

statement and have it Accounting Office 
as scholar, they will 

mailed via Libcap 
submit the list of 

 
Scholars for billing. 

TOTAL None 3 Days  

 
 

 
 

335



 

13. Respond to Inquiries and Consultation  
 
This service refers to walk-ins and incoming calls from the general public asking for advice on financial matters.  
 

Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS  

 *Call through phone 

*Personally come to the office 

*send email 

  

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING TIME PERSON 
RESPONSIBLE 

1.Walk-ins 1. Entertains walk-in inquiries None 1Hour Accounting Staff 

  Accounting Office 

 

2. Phone inquiries 

2. Answers telephone calls. 1  Hour Accounting Staff 
Accounting Office 

TOTAL None 2 Hours  

 
 

  

 
 

336



 

14. Clearance for Requests for Certification. 
 
This process shall accept and process requests from students for clearance of financial accountability of the university. 
 

Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizens  

Who may avail Students 

CHECKLIST OF WHERE TO SECURE 
REQUIREMENTS 

Request Form OUR Office  

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Student submits 1. Receives the request form, P50.00 payment 1 Day Accounting Staff 
accomplished completely filled up and in getting the Accounting Office 
form of signed. Cert. of Tuition  
certification 2. Check to SAIS if there is an Discount 2 Days 
request and Accounting Staff 

accountability or ineligibility 
proceed to cash Accounting Office 

before signing the request 
office for payment   

TOTAL 50.00 3 Days  

 

 
 

337



 

15. Inquiries and Consultation  
 
This service refers to walk ins and incoming calls from the general public and faculty and staff asking for advice on financial matters.  
 

Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C- Government to Citizen  

Who may avail Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

 *Calls through phone UP CEBU ACCOUNTING  

*Personally comes to the office 

*sends email 

  

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING TIME PERSON 
RESPONSIBLE 

1. Walk-ins 1. Entertains walk-in inquiries None 1 Hour Accounting Staff 

  Accounting Office 
 

 

2. Phone inquiries 

2. Answers telephone calls. 1 Hour Accounting Staff 
Accounting Office 

TOTAL None 2 Hours  

 
  

 
 

338



 

16. Refund of School Fees  Due to  Reassessment of School Fees  
This type service process refunds to students whose tuition bracket has been revised after his/her enrolment is completed.   
 

Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C- Government to Citizen  

Who may avail Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

EOR Form 5 and Certificate of OUR Office and OSA  
Tuition Discount 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1.  Student  submits 1.  Receives documents P40.00 1 Day Accounting Staff 
EOR Form 5 and payment in  Accounting Office 
Certificate of Tuition getting the Cert. 
Discount with 1 2.  Prepares Disbursement of Tuition 1 Day 

Accounting Staff 
photocopy Voucher ( DV) for in Discount  

triplicate for tuition refund Accounting Office 
and Journal Entry Voucher  
(JEV) 

3.  After the DV’s signature 1 Day 
are complete approved by  
designated approvers of Accounting Staff 
the University Information Accounting Office 
System (UIS) it will  
release the DV to cash 
Office for check 
preparation. 

TOTAL P40.00 3 Days  

  

 
 

339



 

17. Refund Withdrawal of School Fees  
 

This process shall accept applications from students for refund of part of the school fees due to withdrawal. 
 

Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C- Government to Citizen  

Who may avail Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Change Matriculation form, Letter addressed to the Chancellor (stating the reasons for OUR Office  
withdrawal with the signature of Adviser, Dean of College and OUR) 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON 
BE PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Student files for cancellation of 1. Receives documents P10.00 1 Day Accounting Staff 
Subjects/LOA/Totally Drop all Accounting Office 
subject (furnish a copy to 
Accounting) 

2. Furnishes a letter addressed to the 2. Prepares DV and JEV for the 2 Days Accounting Staff 
Chancellor stating the reasons for Refund (100% before the Accounting Office 
withdrawal and to be signed by the opening of classes, 80% 1 week 
adviser, Dean of the College and from the opening of classes, 
the OUR 50% for the 2nd, 3rd and 4th week 

of classes and no refund after 
the 4th week of classes) 

TOTAL P10.00 3 Days  

 
 

 
 

18. Refund of Students’ Deposit   
 

 

340



 

This process shall return the deposit to students of P100.00 initially paid in his first year and to be returned after transfer or 
graduation of the student. 
 

Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C- Government to Citizen  

Who may avail Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

College Clearance, Electronic Official Receipt OUR Office  
(EOR) bearing the amount of 100 pesos. 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING TIME PERSON 
RESPONSIBLE 

1. Submits letter addressed 1. Office staff in charge P10.00 payment in 1 Day Accounting Staff 
to the Chancellor receives the approved getting the Cert. of Accounting Office 
(endorsed by the Adviser letter and other Tuition Discount  
and the Dean of College) documents. 
and submits original  
Official Receipt (OR) , 2. Prepares DV for refund  2 Days  Accounting Staff 
photocopy of Form5 and 

and JEV After signing 
Change Matriculation  Accounting Office 

 
Form the DV and approval to 

 the UIS it will release to 
cash Office for check 
preparation 

TOTAL P10.00 3 Days  

 
 
 

19. Replacement of Stale Checks and Cancelled Checks                                                     
 

 

341



 

    
This service is for students whose checks previously issued were not encashed , and either it was  stale or cancelled, requests for a new 
check. 
 
 
Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C- Government to Citizen  

Who may avail Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Letter request, Payment   Client shall secure his own request  

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Client submits request  1. Logs in request P50 1 Day Accounting Staff 
Accounting Office 

2. Prepares  and prints  2 Days Accounting Staff 
Disbursement Voucher;  Accounting Office 
posts in the UIS for the 
number, then routes the 
voucher to other offices for 
signature 

TOTAL P50 3 Days  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 
 

342



 

20. Student Loan Application  
This type of service shall process application from students who will only pay 70% or above of the full tuition fee and miscellaneous 
fees per semester/trimester. 

Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C- Government to Citizen  

Who may avail Students  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Form 5A, SLB form, Photocopy of Co Debtor’s ID, Promissory note if the loan Accounting Office, Office of Student Affairs 
amount exceeds 80% of total assessed fees. 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON 
BE PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Student presents assessed Form 1. Reviews the completeness of None 1 Day Accounting Staff 
5A with adviser’s signature to get documents   Accounting Office 
SLB application form  accomplish   
the SLB form with attached 2. Once Student is approved,  staff 2 Days 
photocopy of guarantor’s ID. Have shall post the amount loaned at 
the  SLB application/form signed  

SAIS to adjust tuition fees before Accounting Staff 
by the OSA Director if you opt to proceeding to the cash office for Accounting Office 
loan 79% down based in the total payment  
matriculation and to Chancellor 
office if above 80% 

None 3 Days  
TOTAL 

  

 
 

343



 

21. Voucher Processing-Stipends for Students  
 
This process pre-audits vouchers submitted to accounting office for the purpose of releasing stipend. 

Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C- Government to Citizen  

Who may avail Students 

CHECKLIST OF WHERE TO SECURE 
REQUIREMENTS 

DV, OBR, Payroll,  OSA Office  

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING TIME PERSON 
PAID RESPONSIBLE 

1. OSA Personnel submit all 1. Receives documents from None 1 Day Accounting Staff 
documents to accounting OSA  Accounting Office 

office for the Pre-audit. 
2. Pre Audits DV at the UIS and 1 Day Accounting Staff 

prepares JEV. Accounting Office 

3. After signing the DV and 1 Day Accounting Staff 
approval to the UIS it will Accounting Office 

release to cash Office for 
check preparation 

TOTAL None 3 Days  

 
 
  

 
 

344



 

22. Voucher Processing Payment to Suppliers  
 

This service pertains to reviewing and processing of vouchers for payment to suppliers submitted to the office before endorsement to 
cash for check issuance. 
 

Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Complex 

Type of Transaction G2B –Government to Business 

G2C -Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Suppliers of materials and services 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Purchase Request, Recommendation for Mode of Procurement, PhilGEPS if  Supply & Property Management Office 
applicable, Canvass, Abstract of Bids, BAC Resolution, Purchase Order, Department Head Office, Budget Office 
Invoice/Bill, Request Issue Slip, Report of Inspection and Acceptance, Guest List 

Requesting Department 
(for meals & other services), Certificate of Satisfactory Service (for meals & other 
services)                          Approved Obligation Request & Status               
Disbursement Voucher 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO PROCESSING TIME PERSON 
BE PAID RESPONSIBLE 

1. College/office 1. Receives  documents from admin staff in None 1 Day Accounting Staff 
clerks submits charge Accounting Office 

complete  

documents after 2. Checks documents as to the correctness of 2 Days Accounting Staff 

items are receives the amount, completeness of the required Accounting Office 
attachments and signatures (hard copy) 

or service has 
been rendered 

3. Checks the transaction as per UIS DV# as to 2 Days Accounting Staff 
the correctness of the amount and the Accounting Office 
required attachments 

 
 

345



 

4. Compute Withholding tax and prepare 1 Day Accounting Staff 
withholding tax certificates (BIR Forms 2306 Accounting Office 
& 2307) 

5. Prepares Journal Entry Voucher 1 Day Accounting Staff 
 Accounting Office 

 TOTAL None 7 Days  

 
 

  

 
 

346



 

23. Vouchers processing -Payment to contractors  
 

This service pertains to reviewing and processing of vouchers for payment to contractors submitted to the office before endorsement 
to cash for check issuance 
 

Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Complex 

Type of Transaction G2C- Government to Business 

Who may avail Construction companies 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Purchase Request, Recommendation for Mode of Procurement, PhilGEPS if applicable,  Supply & Property Management Office 
Canvass, Abstract of Bids, BAC Resolution, Contract, Invoice/Bill, Certificate of Final Department Head Office, Budget Office 
Acceptance or as required in the Contract, Bid Docs                            Approved Obligation 

Requesting Department                            
Request & Status                                Disbursement Voucher 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING TIME PERSON 
PAID RESPONSIBLE 

1. The client sends its 1. Receives documents from person in None 1 Day Accounting Staff 
billing thru the OCA charge Accounting Office 

and responsible 2. Checks documents as to the 1 Day Accounting Staff 
correctness of the amount,  Accounting Office 

offices  
completeness of the required 
attachments and signatures (hard copy) 

3. Checks the transaction as per UIS DV# 2 Days Accounting Staff 
as to the correctness of the amount and Accounting Office 
the required attachments 

4. Compute withholding tax and prepare 1 Day Accounting Staff 
withholding tax certificates (BIR Form Accounting Office 
2306 & 2307) 

 
 

347



 

5. Prepare Journal Entry Voucher 1 Day Accounting Staff 
Accounting Office 

 

6. Forward documents to the Accounting 1 Day Accounting Staff 
Chief for signature Accounting Office 

 TOTAL None 7 Days  

 
 
  

 
 

348



 

24. Vouchers processing- Payment of Utilities 
 
 This service pertains to creation of vouchers, reviewing and processing for payment to utility companies before endorsement to cash 
for check issuance. 
 

Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Complex 

Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Business 

G2B- Government to Government 

Who may avail Companies that supply water, electricity and telephone lines 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Copy of Bill  Service Provider 

Approved Obligation Request & Status                           Department Head Office, Budget Office 

Disbursement Voucher Requesting Department                             

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1.   Delivers Bill for 1. Receives bill, records then reviews the bill for None 1 Day Accounting Staff 
the month completeness. Prepares disbursement voucher Accounting Office 

 and Obligation Request & Status 
2. Generates DV# from the UIS 1 Day Accounting Staff 

Accounting Office 
3. Forwards documents to Budget Office for 1 Day Accounting Staff 

Obligation and Certification of Fund Availability Accounting Office 
4. Forwards documents to the Office of the Vice 1 day Accounting Staff 

Chancellor for signature Accounting Office 
5.  Computes withholding tax and prepare 1 Day Accounting Staff 

withholding tax certificates (BIR Form 2306 & Accounting Office 
2307) 

 
 

349



 

6.  Records processed vouchers  to suppliers index 1 Day Accounting Staff 
card Accounting Office 

7.  Forwards documents to the Accounting Chief for 1 Day Accounting Staff 
signature Accounting Office 

TOTAL None 7 Days  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

350



 

INTERNAL SERVICES 

1. Assessment for Rental of Facilities  
 
This service requires assessment of fees to be paid for the use of facilities of the university. 
 

Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2B Government to Business, G2C- Government to Citizen  

Who may avail UP Cebu Employees  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Reservation form  Campus Maintenance Office (CMO) 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING TIME PERSON 
RESPONSIBLE 

1. Present Accomplished 1. Office staff In-charge Per hour rate of 1 Day Accounting Staff 
Reservation form signed by receives documents specific venue and Accounting Office 

the Head of CMO to ensure  equipment 

that the facility needed is 2. Assess the fees based 1 Day Accounting Staff 

available on the needed venue / Accounting Office 

equipment and the  

number of hours. 

3. Forward the reservation 1 Day Accounting Staff 
form to the Office of the Accounting Office 
Vice chancellor for  
Administration (OVCA) 
for signature. 

 
 

351



 

TOTAL Per hour rate of  

 specific venue and 3 Days 
equipment 

 
2. Respond to Inquiries and Consultation  

This service refers to walk-ins and incoming calls from the faculty and staff asking for advice on financial matters.  
 

Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Faculty, Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

 *Call through phone UP CEBU ACCOUNTING  

*Personally come to the office 

*send email 

  

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING TIME PERSON 
RESPONSIBLE 

1. Walk-ins 1. Entertains walk-in inquiries None 1 Hour Accounting Staff 

  Accounting Office 
 

 

2. Phone inquiries 

2. Answers telephone calls. 1 Hour Accounting Staff 
Accounting Office 

TOTAL None 2 Hours  

 
 

 
 

352



 

  

 
 

353



 

3. Inquiries and Consultation  
 
This service refers to walk ins and incoming calls from the general public and faculty and staff asking for advice on financial matters.  
 

Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C- Government to Citizen  

Who may avail  Faculty, Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

 *Calls through phone UP CEBU ACCOUNTING  

*Personally comes to the office 

*sends email 

  

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING TIME PERSON 
RESPONSIBLE 

1.Walk-ins 1. Entertains walk-in inquiries None 1 Hour Accounting Staff 

  Accounting Office 
 

 

2. Phone inquiries 

2. Answers telephone calls. 1 Hour Accounting Staff 
Accounting Office 

TOTAL None 2 Hours  

 

 
 

354



 

4. Issuance of Certifications 
 

This service is for faculty, reps and administrative staff that requires a certification from Accounting Office of their records. 
 
 
Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C- Government to Citizen  

Who may avail Faculty, Staff, REPS 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Letter request  Client shall secure his own request  

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

Client submits request  Logs in request, retrieves None 3 Days Accounting Staff 
records, encodes and releases Accounting Office 
the requested forms 

TOTAL None 3 Days  

 
 
 
 
  

 
 

355



 

5. Issuance of BIR 2316 (Certificate of Withholding tax from Compensation) 
 
This service involves reviewing, collating, encoding and printing of BIR 2316 for distribution to the faculty and staff of the university. 
 
 

Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Highly Technical 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail EMPLOYEES 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Alphalist of employees Accounting Office 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID PRO-CESSING TIME PERSON RES-
PONSIBLE 

1.  Bureau of Internal revenue thru its 1.  Payroll clerk prints None 12 Days Accounting Staff 
revenue regulation has issued a BIR 2316. Accounting 
mandate that all agencies shall Office 
release the BIR Form 2316 after 
the calendar year ends 2.  Collates all the BIR 3 Days Accounting Staff 

2316 forms and Accounting 
distribute to Office 
employees 

TOTAL None 15 Days  

    
 
 

 
  

 
 

356



 

6. Issuance of second copy of BIR Form 2316 
 

This service refers to issuing a second copy of BIR 2316 to faculty and administrative staff of the university. 
 

 ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Employee 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Letter request or by email Accounting 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PRO-CESSING TIME PERSON RES-
PAID PONSIBLE 

1. Submits  1. Office staff-in-charge, prepares the document None 2 Days Accounting Staff 
request Accounting Office 

2. Staff in-charge releases the document 1 Day Accounting Staff 
Accounting Office 

TOTAL None 3 Days  

 
  

 
 

357



 

7. Issuance of BIR 2306 and BIR 2307 for Lecturers and Contractual Employees 
 
This involves preparation, encoding and printing of BIR 2306 and BIR 2307 for Non-Government Workers for their withholding tax. 

 
Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Complex 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail NGW (Non-Government Workers), Lecturers 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Request by phone or email Accounting office 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. The client requests 1. Lists down names of names who None 3 Days Accounting Staff 
 for BIR Form 2307 requested Accounting Office 

2. Prepares, reviews, prints BIR 4 Days Accounting Staff 
Forms Accounting Office 

TOTAL None 7 Days  

 
 

 
 
  

 
 

358



 

8. Replacement of Stale Checks and Cancelled Checks  
 

This service is for faculty, reps and administrative staff, suppliers, organizations and contractors whose checks previously issued were 
not encashed, and either it was stale or cancelled, requests for a new check. 
 
 
Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C- Government to Citizen  

Who may avail Faculty, Staff, REPS 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Letter request, Payment   Client shall secure his own request  

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Client submits request  1. Logs in request P50.00 1 Day Accounting Staff 
Accounting Office 

 2. Prepares  and prints  2 Days Accounting Staff 
Disbursement Voucher;  Accounting Office 
posts in the UIS for the 
number, then routes the 
voucher to other offices for 
signature 

TOTAL P50.00 3 Days  

 
 
 
 
  

 
 

359



 

9. Voucher Processing – Non Government Workers & Honorarium 
 
This process pertains to creation of vouchers, pre audit and processing for payment. 

 
Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Complex 

Type of Transaction G2C- Government to Citizen  

Who may avail Contractual Employees 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Disbursement Voucher with complete attachment, OBR, DTR, COS HRDO 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1.  The 1. Receives the documents from the in-charge None 4 Hours Accounting Staff 
Units/Offices Accounting Office 
responsible shall 
submit 2. Checks the completeness of the documents 4 Hours Accounting Staff 

vouchers, and the amount Accounting Office 
payroll and 3. Writes the account title, the UACS code, and 4 Hours Accounting Staff 
supporting the amount Accounting Office 
documents 

4. Goes to UIS 4 Hours Accounting Staff 

Accounting Office 

5. Searches the DV number, verified the exact 4 Hours Accounting Staff 
amount Accounting Office 

6. Checks if the attachments in the UIS is 4 Hours Accounting Staff 
complete Accounting Office 

7. Initiates and validates 4 Hours Accounting Staff 

 Accounting Office 

 
 

360



 

8. Makes Journal Entry, input the exact amount 2 Days Accounting Staff 
and check if the tax is correct Accounting Office 

9. Writes the DV & OBR number 4 Hours Accounting Staff 

 Accounting Office 

10. Writes the DV & OBR number 4 Hours Accounting Staff 
Accounting Office 

11. Prints, counter signs, forwards to 4 Hours Accounting Staff 
accountant Accounting Office 

TOTAL None 7 Days  

 
 
 
 
  

 
 

361



 

10. Voucher Processing - Cash advance 

This service involves processing request for cash advances for the purpose of travel, payment of salaries or for operating expenses.  
 

Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Complex 

Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Full time Employees of the University 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Approved letter request for funding Approved travel order   Department Head Office, Office of the Chancellor 

 Approved Itinerary of travel        Approved Obligation Department Head Office, Office of the Chancellor 
Request & Status Department Head Office, Office of the Chancellor 
Disbursement Voucher Department Head Office, Budget Office 

Requesting Department 

CLIENT AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
STEPS PAID 

1. The client 1. Receives documents from person in None 1 Day Accounting Staff 
submits charge (verified no un-liquidated cash Accounting Office 
request for advance) 
cash 2. Checks documents as to the correctness 2 Days Accounting Staff 
advance of the amount,  completeness of the Accounting Office 
and required attachments and signatures (hard  
submits 

copy) 
documents 

3. Checks the transaction as per UIS DV# as 2 Days Accounting Staff 
to the correctness of the amount and the Accounting Office 
required attachments  

4. Prepare Journal Entry Voucher 1 Day Accounting Staff 
Accounting Office 

 
 

362



 

 5. Forward documents to the Accounting  1 Day Accounting Staff 
Chief for signature Accounting Office 

TOTAL None 7 Days  

     

 

 
 

363



 

11. Voucher processing of reimbursement of travel expenses 
 
This service pertains to reviewing and processing of vouchers submitted to the office before endorsement to cash for check issuance. 
 

Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Complex 

Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen 

Who may avail UP Employees 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Approved letter request for funding Approved travel order                 D e partment Head Office, Office of the Chancellor 
Approved Itinerary of travel                   Approved Obligation Department Head Office, Office of the Chancellor 
Request & Status                           

Department Head Office of the Chancellor 
Plane tickets, boarding pass, receipts, Certificates of travel 

Department Head Office,  Budget Office 
completed and Certificate of Appearance/Attendance   

Concerned Personnel 
Disbursement Voucher 

Requesting Department 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING TIME PERSON 
PAID RESPONSIBLE 

1. Submits its request 1. Checks documents as to the None 2 Days Accounting Staff 
and attaches the correctness of the amount,  Accounting Office 

require documents completeness of the required 
attachments and signatures (hard 
copy) 2 Days Accounting Staff 

Accounting Office 
2.   Checks the transaction as per UIS 

DV# as to the correctness of the 
amount and the required attachments 

3.   Prepares Journal Entry Voucher 1 Day Accounting Staff 

 Accounting Office 

 
 

364



 

4.   Forwards documents to the 1 Day Accounting Staff 
Accounting Chief for signature Accounting Office 

TOTAL None 7 Days  

 
 

  

 
 

365



 

12. Voucher processing - Reimbursement for the payment of hotel accommodation, meals, and other 
miscellaneous expenses 

  
This service pertains to reviewing and processing of vouchers submitted to the office before endorsement to cash for check issuance. 

 
Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Complex 

Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen 

Who may avail UP Employees 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Purchase Request, Recommendation for Mode of  Supply & Property Management Office 
Procurement, PhilGEPS if applicable, Canvass, Abstract of Department Head Office, Budget Office 
Bids, BAC Resolution, Purchase Order, Invoice/Bill, Guest 

Requesting Department                             
List, Certificate of Satisfactory Service                                           
Approved Obligation Request & Status  Disbursement 
Voucher 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING TIME PERSON 
PAID RESPONSIBLE 

1. The Client 1. Receives documents from admin staff in None 1 Day Accounting Staff 
submits complete charge  Accounting Office 

documents 
2. Checks documents as to the correctness 2 Days Accounting Staff 

of the amount, completeness of the Accounting Office 
required attachments and signatures (hard 
copy) 

3. Checks the transaction as per UIS DV# as 2 Days Accounting Staff 
to the correctness of the amount and the Accounting Office 
required attachments 

 
 

366



 

4. Prepares Journal Entry Voucher 1Day Accounting Staff 
 Accounting Office 

5. Forward documents to the Accounting 1 Day Accounting Staff 
Chief for signature Accounting Office 

TOTAL None 7 Days  

 
 

 
 
  

 
 

367



 

13. Voucher Processing – Payroll 
 

This service includes the creation of vouchers, encoding, posting and printing payroll for the month. 

 
Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Complex 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Full time Employees of the University 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

List from HMO of Leave without pay, resigned personnel, new HMO 
employees and adjusted salary Accounting office 
Payroll 

Disbursement Voucher and Obligation request 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PRO-CESSING TIME PERSON RES-
PAID PONSIBLE 

UP System policy 1. Payroll clerk computes Withholding Tax for each None 3 Days Accounting Staff 
mandates the employee. Accounting Office 
salary of Regular  
and Casual 2. Encodes/Checks Monthly Deduction 1 Day Accounting Staff 
employees to be  Accounting Office 
released weekly - 
7th, 14th, 22nd and 3. Prints Payroll and Pay-slips 1 Day Accounting Staff 

30th  Accounting Office 

4. Prepares Disbursement Voucher, Obligation 1 Day Accounting Staff 
Request and Journal Entry Voucher Accounting Office 

5. Assigns DV # thru UIS, initiates and validates 1 Day Accounting Staff 
the transaction Accounting Office 

 TOTAL None 7 Days  

 
 

368



 

 

  

 
 

369



 

14. Voucher Processing – Liquidations of Cash Advances 
 
This service requires review, pre audit, posting and reporting of liquidation of cash advances of the faculty and admin staff  of the 
university. 

 
Office or Division ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

Classification Complex 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail UP Cebu ADMIN FACULTY, STAFF AND REPS 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Liquidation Report, Statement of Cash Advance, Report of - Cash Advance Requester/ Traveler 
Disbursement, Cert. of Travel Completed, Itinerary of Travel, Official  
Receipts, and other pertinent documents ( Travel Order, e-ticket/ 
boarding pass, cert. of appearance, approved invitation letter) 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PRO-CESSING PERSON RES-
PAID TIME PONSIBLE 

1. Cash Advance 1. Checks if   liquidation documents are  None 1 Day Accounting Staff 
Requester, complete with attachments and signatures Accounting Office 
Traveler 2. Returns liquidations with lacking signatures 2 Days Accounting Staff 

 and receipts to the Requester/ Traveler Accounting Office 
3. If liquidations are complete, submits to the 1 Day Accounting Staff 

Accountant for approval Accounting Office 

4. Prepares Month-end liquidation summary 2 Days Accounting Staff 
report for submission to the Accountant Accounting Office 

5. Files monthly liquidations for COA 1 Day Accounting Staff 
submission Accounting Office 

 

 TOTAL None 7 Days  

 
 

370



 

 
UNIVERSITY OF THE PHILIPPINES CEBU 

ACCOUNTING OFFICE 
 

 

FEEDBACK AND COMPLAINTS MECHANISM 
 

How to send feedback You may file feedback/complaints using our feedback form at our office 
or directly email the office at accounting.upcebu@up.edu.ph 

How feedbacks are The office receives the feedback and sorts. For suggestions, the office investigates proactive solutions or 
processed reevaluation of protocols. 

1. Reevaluation of process 
2. Corrective action 
3. Organizational improvement 

How to file a complaint You may file feedback/complaints with our feedback form at our office or directly email the office at 
accounting.upcebu@up.edu.ph attaching the signed formal complaint. 

How complaints are 1. The office receives the complaint and directs the processing to proper authority.  
processed 1.1 For suggestive complaints, the office will look for proactive methods and will assess the validity of the 

complaint.  
2. For formal complaints, the office shall do the following: 

1.1 Complaint processing 
1.2 Complaint investigation 
1.3 Corrective action 
1.4 Complaint resolution 
1.5 Organizational improvement 

Contact information The numbers are at:  
(032) 232 8187 local 104 
 
Email at: 
accounting.upcebu@up.edu.ph 

 

 
 

371



 

 
CASH OFFICE 

EXTERNAL SERVICES 
 

1. Collection of fees 
 
The Cash office receives various payments or collects fees from external clients for official documents requested. 
 
Office of Division CASH OFFICE 
Classification Simple  
Type of Transaction G2B – Government to Business, G2C-Government to Citizen, G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail Outsider/ external clients 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. Request Form/Billing Statement 1.Office of the University Registrar ( OUR) 
2. I.D 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1.  Presents the 1.1 Checks the accuracy and 2 Minutes 

accomplished and completeness of the request form/  
approved forms required billing statement     
for payment   

 1.2 Informs the client of the amount needed 1 Minute 
 for the request 
2.  Pays the required amount  2.1 Receives payment and encode the name 2 Minutes 

As per Cash Office Staff 
 and the corresponding fees paid by the client  

amount billed Cash Office 
       
 2.2 Checks the amount of cash or check  
 (cashier or manager’s check) presented   2 Minutes 
   
 2.3 Prints the official receipt after receiving  
 the payment 2 Minutes 
 

 
 

372



 

3.  Claims the Official receipt 3.1 Issues and releases official receipt to 1 Minute 
(OR) client 

TOTAL As per 10 Minutes  
amount billed 

 
  

 
 

373



 

2. Collection of rental fees of UP Cebu facilities 
 
Cash Office collects fees from external clients include rentals, dormitories, guesthouse and other university facilities, and payment for the 
sale of bid documents. 
 
Office of Division Cash Office 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government, G2C –Government to Citizen, G2B –Government to Business 
Who may avail Outsider / External Clients /Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Approved Letter Request  Client 
Approved reservation form with Assessment Campus Maintenance Office & Accounting Office 
For Bid Documents:  
Payment Form Supply & Property Management Office (SPMO) 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Presents approved 1.1 Receives the reservation or 2 Minutes 

reservation form or payment form  
payment form with   
assessment of fees 1.2 Checks the rate of payment against 1 Minute 

the approved rate 
2. Pays the required fees 2. Accepts payment &  2 Minutes 

 Check the accuracy of the amount paid. As per  Cash Office Staff 
  amount billed  Cash Office 
 2.1 Encodes the name & corresponding 2 Minutes 

amount required  
  
2.2. Prints the official receipt 2 Minutes 

3. Claims the official receipt 3.Issues and releases the official receipt 1 Minute 
 to client 

TOTAL As per 10 Minutes  
amount billed 

 
 

374



 

 
3. Collection of payment for stale, lost and cancelled checks and requests for re-issuance 

 
Clients doing business with the university may request for the re-issuance of cancelled check due to error in encoding in the UIS, 
stale or lost checks. 

 
Office of Division Cash Office, Accounting 
Classification Simple  
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen, G2B - Government to Business, G2G - Government to Government 
Who may avail Suppliers, Private Individuals & Government Agencies 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
A. Cancelled, stale check   Client 
B. Letter request   
C. Official receipt Cash Office 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1.  Presents & submits the letter 1.1 Receives the letter and affix 5 Minutes 

request and the check for the date of receipt.  
replacement.  2 Minutes  

 1.2 Verifies the details of the   
 check.   
  2 Minutes  
 1.3 Forwards the letter with the  Administrative Assistant II 

None 
  Cash Office 

copy of the DV and the  
   

check cancelled or stale to  
 2 Minutes  

the Cash Office Head. 
   

 
   

1.4 Informs the accounting office 
 30 Minutes Administrative Officer V 

of the details of the check 
  Cash Office 

cancelled stale or lost check 
 

 
 

 
 

375



 

1.5 Inquires from the bank if the 2 Minutes 
lost check is not presented 
for payment and fill-up 
request for stop payment. 

 

1.6 Informs the client of the 
status of the request  

2.  Receives the approval or 2.1 Accepts the payment and PHP 50.00 2 Minutes Administrative Officer V 
disapproval of the request if issue official receipt for the  Cash Office 

the lost check was presented issuance of another check.   
in the bank before the   Administrative Assistant II 

request. 2.2 Prepares the new check. 5 Minutes Cash Office 

    
SIGNATORIES 

 2.3 Forwards the check for  
Rita C. Binagatan 

 signing of the main signatory 2 Minutes Administrative Officer V, or 
and the counter signatory  Leliosa P. Bughao 

  Administrative Assistant II 
2.4 Verifies the payee and 1 Hour  

amount of the check and  COUNTER SIGNATORIES 
sign the check  Chancellor, or 

Vice Chancellor for 
Administration, or 

Vice Chancellor for Academic 
Affairs 

TOTAL PHP 50.00 1 Hour,  
52 Minutes 

  
  

 
 

376



 

4. Collection of Enrollment Fees (Graduate Students Only)  
 
Tuition and Miscellaneous Fees are collected from the graduate program students who are not covered in the Free Tuition Act or known 
as Republic Act No. 10687. Student Loan are included in the collection of payment. 
 
Office of Division Cash Office 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Graduate Students   

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1.Temporary Form 5 1.Different Colleges 
2.Student I.D. 2.OUR (Office of the Registrar)/Student 
3.Student Loan Form (those who want to avail the Loan) 3.Accounting Office 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Presents the 1.1Receives the Temporary Form 5, I.D.   2 Minutes 

Temporary Form 5, and Student Loan Form (if applicable)   
UP I.D. and Student    
Loan Form (if student 1.2 Encodes the student no. in the SAIS  2 Minutes 
wants to avail of the and inform the students of the amount to   
loan) be paid.   Administrative Assistant II 

    Cash Office 
2. Pay the required 2.  Receives payment by cash from the As per 1 Minute  

amount of school students amount billed  and 
fees. a. Checks the amount received and the  2 Minutes  

 authenticity of the bill paid through   Other Deputized Special 

 the counterfeit money detector.   Collecting Officer 

    
 b.  Encodes the name and the amount 2 Minutes 
 paid by the student in the SAIS  
   

1 Minute 

 
 

377



 

3. Claims the Official 3.  Releases the auto generated official  
Receipt (OR) receipt, I.D. and Temporary Form 5 to 

the student 
TOTAL As per 10 Minutes  

amount billed 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 
 

378



 

5. Collection thru On-Line Deposit 
 
The Cash Office receives collection deposited online to UP Cebu-Philippine Veterans Bank Account. 
 
Office of Division Cash Office 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2G - Government to Government; G2C - Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Other government agencies 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Validated Copy of Deposit Slip or Copy of List of Due and Demandable Validated Deposit slip issued by the bank or Government 
Accounts Payable (LDDAP) Agency concerned 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1.  Presents validated deposit 1.1Checks and verify the date and None 2 Minutes 

slip or LDDAP form amount deposited through the   
receive & acknowledge by print-out bank statement   
the bank    

 1.2 Encodes the data in the online 2 Minutes 
 collection system for the online  
 deposit   
   
2.  Requests for the issuance 2.1 Prints the official receipt to be 2 Minutes 

Administrative Assistant II 
of U.P. Cebu Official issued to the requestor  

Cash Office 
Receipt   

   
3.  Claims the official receipt 3. Releases the official receipt to client 2 Minutes 
   
 3.1 For request thru mail, Prepare 2 Minutes 

acknowledgement letter.  
  
3.2 Releases and mails 5 Minutes 

acknowledgement letter with the  

 
 

379



 

official receipt to the donor or 
funding agency. 

TOTAL None 15 Minutes  
 
 
  

 
 

380



 

6. Disbursement of Checks 
 
The Cash Office disburses all checks such as payment for utilities, goods, services, remittances, and refunds. 
 
Office of Division Cash Office 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2G - Government to Government; G2B - Government to Business 
Who may avail Outsider/ External Clients  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Individual Clients: SSS, GSIS, Driver’s License. Passport, BIR, HDMF 
Government Issued I.D. Voter’s I.D. & Postal I.D. 
Representative:  
Authorization Letter (immediate family member) Person being represented 
Special Power of Attorney (SPA) Person being represented 
Government issued I.D. of the person represented (original & SSS, GSIS, Driver’s License, Passport, BIR, HDMF, Voter’s I.D.  & 
signed photocopy) Postal I.D. 
Government Issued I.D. of the representative  
Suppliers & other Government Agencies: SSS, GSIS, Driver’s License, Passport, BIR, HDMF, Voter’s I.D. & 
Government Issued I.D. Postal I.D. 
Official Receipt B.I.R. 

FEES TO BE 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID 
1.  Inquires the availability of 1.1 Verifies the availability of 2 Minutes 

check or business entity. the check.  
  Administrative Aide VI 

None  
Cash Office 

1.2  Requires the client of the 2 Minutes 
document needed to claim 

 
 

381



 

2. For Individual Clients &  2. Receives the documents 3 Minutes 
    Representative: and verify the date of  
    Present valid ID.  issuance of SPA (within six  
 months period)  

For representative, valid ID   
of the representative and   
authorization letter or SPA   
with the valid ID of the   
person represented.   Administrative Aide VI 

   Cash Office 
For Suppliers and other 2.1 Checks the validity of the 2 Minutes 
Government Agencies: official receipt of the  
Presents their official supplier  
receipt   

 2.2. Hands in the DV & warrant 1 Minute 
 register to the supplier or 

claimant to sign the payee 
portion 

3.  Fills up and sign the DV in 3. Verifies the correctness of 2 Minutes 
the space provided for the signature in the DV and  
payee or claimant. Signs warrant register.  
the Warrant register and   
affix the date. Turn over to   
the in charge the signed   
DV & warrant register.   

Administrative Aide VI 
   

Cash Office 
4.  For Suppliers: 4. Verifies the data affix in the 2 Minutes 

Issues official receipt and official receipt and the  
fill-up and signs the signature in the DV &  
disbursement voucher and warrant register.  
warrant register and turn-   
over to the cashier 4.1 Issues the check to  

claimant/supplier 1 Minute 

 
 

382



 

TOTAL None 15 Minutes  
 
 

7. Disbursement of Check through On-Line Deposit 
 
The Cash Office deposits claims, payment of supplies, to their respective account at Land Bank or  other banks. 
 
Office of Division Cash Office 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen; G2B - Government to Business 
Who may avail Suppliers 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. Authority to deposit 1. Requesting party 
 2. Bank Account Number 2. Client’s Depository Bank 
 3. Bank Service Charge (inter-branch Account) 3. Pay P50 ((P10,000 below) P100 (P10,000 above) 

FEES TO PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME 

BE PAID RESPONSIBLE 
1.  Client sends authority 1. Receives the authority to deposit thru 

to deposit through email and forward the document Administrative Officer V 
2 Minutes 

Cash Office 
email authorizing the  
Cashier to deposit the 1.1 Prepares the deposit slip   and forward 

Administrative Aide VI 
claim to the bank to the Cashier. 3 Minutes 

Cash Office 
account specified  

None 
1.2 Deposits the check to the bank Administrative Officer V 

1 Hour 
specified by the claimant in the Cash Office 
authority to deposit 

 Administrative Aide VI 
1.3 Provides the claimant of the scan copy 2 Minutes 

Cash Office 
of the validated Deposit slip. 

 
 

383



 

For suppliers: 2. Provides a scan copy of the deposit Slip 2 Minutes 
2.  Mails the Official & BIR form 2306 & 2307 for tax  

Administrative Aide VI 
receipt after receiving withheld.  

Cash Office 
the scan copy of the  2 Days 
deposit slip 2.1 Receives the OR and attach to the DV 

TOTAL None 2 Days,   
1 Hour, 

9 minutes 
 
 
 
  

 
 

384



 

INTERNAL SERVICES 

 
1. Collection of fees 

The Cash office receives various payment or collect fees for official documents requested. 
 
Office of Division CASH OFFICE 
Classification Simple  
Type of Transaction G2C-Governemnt to Citizens 
Who may avail UP Cebu Employees 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1.Request Form/Billing Statement 1. Office of the University Registrar (OUR) 
2. U.P. Cebu I.D 2. OUR/HRDO 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1.  Presents the 1.1 Checks the accuracy and 2 Minutes 

accomplished and completeness of the request form/  
approved forms required billing statement     
for payment   

 1.2 Informs the client of the amount needed 1 Minute 
 for the request 
2.  Pays the required amount  2.1 Receives payment and encode the name 2 Minutes 
 and the corresponding fees paid by the  

As per Administrative Assistant II 
     client  

amount billed Cash Office 
   
 2.2 Checks the amount of cash or check 2 Minutes 
 (cashier or manager’s check) presented    
   
 2.3 Prints the official receipt after receiving 2 Minutes 
 the payment 
3.  Claims the Official receipt 3.1 Issues and releases official receipt to 1 Minute 

(OR) client 

 
 

385



 

TOTAL As per 10 Minutes  
amount billed 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

386



 

2. Collection of rental fees of UP Cebu facilities 
 
Cash Office collects fees from UP constituents including rentals, guesthouse and other university facilities. 
 
Office of Division Cash Office 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C –Government to Citizen 
Who may avail UP Cebu Employees 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. Approved Letter Request 1. Client 
2. Approved reservation form with Assessment 2. Campus Maintenance Office & Accounting Office 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1.  Presents approved 1.1 Receives the reservation or 2 Minutes 

reservation form or payment form  
payment form with   
assessment of fees 1.2 Checks the rate of payment 1 Minute 

against the approved rate 
2.  Pays the required fees 2. Accepts payment & check the 2 Minutes 

 accuracy of the amount paid.  
  As per amount  Administrative Assistant II 
 2.1 Encodes the name and billed 2 Minutes Cash Office 

corresponding amount  
required  

  
2.2. Prints the official receipt 2 Minutes 

3. Claims the official receipt 3. Issues and releases the official 1 Minute 
 receipt to client 

TOTAL As per amount 10 Minutes  
billed 

 
 

387



 

 
4. Collection of payment for stale, lost and cancelled check and request for re-issuance 
 
Personnel within the university may request for the re-issuance of cancelled check due to error in encoding in the UIS, stale or lost 
check. 

 
Office of Division Cash Office, Accounting 
Classification Simple  
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen  
Who may avail UP Cebu Employees  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1.Cancelled, stale check   Client 
2.Letter request   

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1.   Presents & submits the 1.1 Receives the letter and affix 5 Minutes Administrative Aide VI 

letter request and the check the date of receipt.  Cash Office 
for replacement.    

 1.2 Verifies the details of the 2 Minutes  
 check.   
    
 1.3 Forwards the letter with the 2 Minutes  
 copy of the DV and the None   
 check cancelled or stale to    
 the Cash Office Head.    
    
   

1.4 Informs the accounting office 
 2 Minutes  

of the details of the check 
   

cancelled stale or lost check 
  

 
 Administrative Officer V 

30 Minutes Cash Office 

 
 

388



 

1.5 Inquires from the bank if the  
lost check is not presented  
for payment and fill-up  
request for stop payment.  

  

1.6 Informs the client of the 2 Minutes 

status of the request  
2.   Receives the approval or 2.  Accepts the payment and PHP 50.00 2 Minutes Administrative Assistant II 

disapproval of the request if issue official receipt for the  Cash Office 

the lost check was presented issuance of another check.   
in the bank before the   Administrative Aide VI 

request. 2.1 Prepares the new check. 5 Minutes Cash Office 

    
SIGNATORIES 

 2.2 Forwards the check for 2 Minutes 
Rita C. Binagatan 

 signing of the main signatory  Administrative Officer V, or 
and the counter signatory  Leliosa P. Bughao 

  Administrative Assistant II 
2.3 Verifies the payee and 1 Hour  

amount of the check and  COUNTER SIGNATORIES 
sign the check  Chancellor, or 

Vice Chancellor for 
Administration, or 

Vice Chancellor for Academic 
TOTAL PHP 50.00 1 Hour,  

52 Minutes 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

389



 

5. Collection thru On-Line Deposit 
    The Cash Office receives collection deposited on line to UP Cebu Account with Philippine Veterans Bank. 
 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen 
Who may avail UP Cebu Project Personnel 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Validated Copy of Deposit Slip or Copy of List of Due and Demandable  Deposit slip issued by the bank or Government Agency 
Accounts Payable (LDDAP) concerned 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1.   Presents validated deposit 1.1 Checks and verify the date and None 2 Minutes 

slip or LDDAP form amount deposited through the   
receive & acknowledge by print-out bank statement   
the bank 1.2  Encodes the data in the online  2 Minutes 

 collection system for the online  
 deposit   
   
2.  Requests for the issuance 2.1  Prints the official receipt to be 2 Minutes 

of U.P. Cebu Official issued to the requestor  
Receipt   Administrative Assistant II 

   Cash Office 
3.  Claims the official receipt 3.  Releases the official receipt to 2 Minutes 
 client  
 3.1 For request thru mail, Prepare  

acknowledgement letter. 2 Minutes 
  
3.2 Releases and mails  

acknowledgement letter with the 5 Minutes 
official receipt to the donor or  
funding agency. 

TOTAL None 15 Minutes  

 
 

390



 

 
6. Bond Application of UP Cebu Accountable Officials and Employees 
 
The Cash Office requires accountable officials and employees to apply for a bond from the Bureau of the Treasury in compliance 
with the COA requirement if position requires custody of funds or property or with the approved authority to hold cash advance of 
more than P5,000.00 

  
Office of Division Cash Office 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen 
Who may avail UP Cebu Employees 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1.General Form 57-A   Cash Office or Bureau of Treasury 
2.General Form 58-A  
3.Authenticated Copy of appointment/designation order HRDO 
4.SALN & Certificate of Employment  
5. Passport Size pictures (2pcs.) Client 
6.DV (Disbursement Voucher) and ObR (Obligation Request) 

PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID 

TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1.   Fills out bond application 1.1 Receives and checks the filled-out 5 Minutes 

form bond application form and other  
 required documents  
   

Administrative Aide VI 
 1.2. Prepares attachment B (list of None 15 Minutes 

Cash Office 
 bonded public official form)  

   
1.3 Forwards application form to the 30 Minutes 

chancellor for approval 

 
 

391



 

2.  Prepares DV & OBR for 2.  Receives duly approve 5 Minutes Administrative Aide VI 
payment of bond premium disbursement voucher for the  Cash Office 

 bureau of the treasury for check   
 preparation   
    
 2.1 Submits documents and checks to 1 Day Administrative Officer V 

 Bureau of the Treasury and  Cash Office 

 secures authority to accept  
 payment  
   
 2.2 Deposits check to Land Bank or 1.5% of the 1 Hour 
 Veterans Bank required amount of  
  bond  
 2.3 Submits the validated deposit slip  30 Minutes 
 and authority to accept payment   
 to Bureau of Treasury  
   
 2.4 Secures confirmation letter of 30 Minutes 
 approved bonded officials from 
 the Bureau of the Treasury 
  
3.  Applicant receives copy of 3.  Provides applicant of a copy of 

the approve bonded confirmation letter of approved Administrative Aide VI 
10 Minutes 

officials bonded officials Cash Office 

TOTAL 1.5% of the 1 Day,  
required amount of 3 Hours,  

bond 5 Minutes 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

392



 

7. Disbursement of Check 
The Cash Office disburses all checks such as payment for utilities, goods, services, salary, remittances, refunds and scholarship grants. 
 
Office of Division Cash Office 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2G - Government to Government; G2B - Government to Business 
Who may avail UP Cebu Employees 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Individual Clients: SSS, GSIS, Driver’s License. Passport, BIR, HDMF 
Government Issued I.D. Voter’s I.D. & Postal I.D. 
University Issued I.D. HRDO (for employees) OUR (for students) 
  
Representative: Person being represented 
Authorization Letter (immediate family member) Person being represented 
Special Power of Attorney (SPA) SSS, GSIS, Driver’s License, Passport, BIR, HDMF, Voter’s I.D.  & 
Government issued I.D. of the person represented (original & Postal I.D. 
signed photocopy) SSS, GSIS, Driver’s License, Passport, BIR, HDMF, Voter’s I.D. & 
Government Issued I.D. of the representative Postal I.D. 
  
 
 

FEES TO BE 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID 
1.  Inquires the availability of 1.1 Verifies the availability of 2 Minutes 

check  the check.  
 1.2 Requires the client of the None 2 Minutes Administrative Aide VI 

Cash Office 
document needed to claim 

 
 

393



 

2.   For Individual Clients & 2.  Receives the documents 3 Minutes 
Representative: and verify the date of  
Present valid ID.  issuance of SPA (within six  

 months period)  
For representative, valid ID   Administrative Aide VI 

of the representative and 2.1 Hands in the DV & warrant 2 Minutes Cash Office 

authorization letter or SPA register to the  claimant to  
with the valid ID of the sign the payee portion  
person represented. 

3.  Fills up and sign the DV in 3. Verifies the correctness of 2 Minutes 
the space provided for the signature in the DV and  
payee or claimant. Signs warrant register.  
the Warrant register and   
affix the date. Turn over to 3.1 Verifies the data and the 2 Minutes Administrative Aide VI 
the in charge the signed signature in the DV &  Cash Office 
DV & warrant register. warrant register.  

   
 3.2 Issues the check to 2 Minutes 

claimant. 
TOTAL None 15 Minutes  

 
 
 
  

 
 

394



 

8. Disbursement of Check through On-Line Deposit 
The Cash Office deposits claims, payment of supplies, to their respective account at Land Bank or other banks. 
 
Office of Division Cash Office 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen 
Who may avail UP Cebu Employees 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 1. Authority to deposit      1.   Requesting party 
 2. Bank Account Number 2. Client’s Depository Bank 
 3. Bank Service Charge (inter-branch Account) 3. Pay P50 ((P10,000 below) P100 (P10,000 above) 

FEES TO PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME 

BE PAID RESPONSIBLE 
1.  Client sends authority 1. Receives the authority to deposit thru 

to deposit through email and forward the document Administrative Officer V 
2 Minutes 

Cash Office 
email authorizing the  
Cashier to deposit the 1.1. Prepares the deposit slip and forward 

Administrative Aide VI 
claim to the bank to the Cashier. 3 Minutes 

Cash Office 
account specified  

None 
1.2 Deposits the check to the bank Administrative Officer V 

1 Hour 
specified by the claimant in the Cash Office 
authority to deposit 

 Administrative Aide VI 
1.3 Provides the claimant of the scan copy 2 Minutes 

Cash Office 
of the validated Deposit slip. 

TOTAL None  1 Hour,  
7 minutes 

 
 
  

 
 

395



 

9. Disbursement through Auto-Debit to Account (ADA) 
 
The Cash Office pays salary, scholarship grant, stipend to their individual account through Auto Debit to Account by sending instruction 
to Land Bank. 
 
Office of Division Cash Office, Accounting Office 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Citizens 
Who may avail UP Cebu Employees 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Approve DV, OBR, and signed payroll Accounting Office 

FEES TO BE PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME 

PAID RESPONSIBLE 
1.  Forwards the sign DV, 1.1 Receives the approve DV, OBR and 5 Minutes Administrative Aide VI 

OBR & payroll signs weekly payroll, monthly  Cash Office 
 stipend & yearly scholarship grant   
    
 1.2 Encodes the weekly payroll & 2 Hours Administrative Officer V 

 Monthly stipend of students in the  Cash Office 

 FinDes System provided by LBP.  
   
 1.3 Prints the listing of the weekly 20 Minutes 

None 
 payroll and monthly stipend.  

 
   
 1.4 Prepares & prints the ADA for the 10 Minutes 
 weekly payroll, monthly stipend &  
 yearly scholarship grant separately.  
   
 1.5 Signs the ADA and the listing of 5 Minutes 
 weekly payroll & stipend;  
   
 30 Minutes 

 
 

396



 

 1.6 Forwards the ADA & listing to the  
 Chancellor Office for counter  
 signature. 1 Hour 
   
 1.7 Submits the signed ADA & Listing  
 to LBP with the USB.  
  10 Minutes 
 1.8 Receives the acknowledge  

transmittal copy of the ADA & listing 
with the specified date of debiting to 
UP Cebu account & crediting to 
individual claimant. 

TOTAL None 4 Hours,  
20 Minutes 

  

 
 

397



 

10. Release of Pay Slips 
The Cash Office releases the folded and stapled pay slip directly to employee as per verbal request or by Colleges /Offices through its 
authorized claimant. 
 
Office of Division Cash Office, Accounting Office 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail UP Cebu Employees 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. Individual Release – no requirement 1. None 
2. Representative per College/Office- List Of employees with 2. Concern College/Office 

individual signature 
FEES TO PERSON 

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME 
BE PAID RESPONSIBLE 

 1. Arranges pay slip 
alphabetically upon receipt 1 Hour 
from the accounting office. 

1.  Employee request verbally to Individual Release 3 Minutes 
release pay slip at counter 1 1.  Finds and releases pay slip  

 to employee  
2.  Receives folded & stapled Pay slip.  2 Minutes Administrative Aide VI 
 Per College/Office None  Cash Office 
1.  Submits the list of names of 1.  Finds and releases the 10 Minutes 

employees per College/Office individually folded and 
requesting for the release of stapled pay slip to the 
payslip for the period. authorized claimant. 

  
2.  Receives the folded and stapled 

pay slip 
TOTAL None 1 Hour,  

15 Minutes 

 
 

398



 

 

FEEDBACK AND COMPLAINTS MECHANISM 
How to send feedback You may file feedback/complaints using our feedback form at our office 

or directly email the office at cash.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
How feedbacks are The office receives the feedback and sorts. For suggestions, the office investigates proactive solutions or 
processed reevaluation of protocols. 

4. Reevaluation of process 
5. Corrective action 
6. Organizational improvement 

How to file a complaint You may file feedback/complaints with our feedback form at our office or directly email the office at 
ovca.upcebu@up.edu.ph attaching the signed formal complaint. 

How complaints are 3. The office receives the complaint and directs the processing to proper authority.  
processed a. For suggestive complaints, the office will look for proactive methods and will assess the validity 

of the complaint.  
4. For formal complaints, the office shall do the following: 

1.6 Complaint processing 
1.7 Complaint investigation 
1.8 Corrective action 
1.9 Complaint resolution 
1.10 Organizational improvement 

Contact information The numbers are at:  
(032) 232 8187 local 00 
 
Email at: 
cash.upcebu@up.edu.ph 

 
  

 
 

399



CAMPUS MAINTENANCE OFFICE (CMO) 

External Services 

1. Reservation of Facilities and Grounds 
This is to assist outsiders and UP students in planning events and booking the facilities in UP Cebu subject to availability. Service 
support is extended in person, on the phone, online or a combination of these avenues, to answer questions and make arrangements 
and reservations of facilities in advance. 
 

Office of Division CMO 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen; G2G - Government to Government 

Who may avail Outsiders from other government agencies, universities, the private sector, other 
UP units, and UP Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

 online  
Letter of Intent from Client addressed to the Chancellor through the   
Vice Chancellor for Administration (with the endorsement of upcebu.edu.ph 
Adviser/Deans and OSA for UP students/ Org.) (email to: 
ovca.upcebu@up.edu.ph 

cc: cmo.upcebu@up.edu.ph 

 
Reservation Form thru UP Cebu website: upcebu.edu.ph 
(attached is the approved letter for recognized UP organization)  
 
 

400



FEES TO BE PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME 

PAID RESPONSIBLE 

1. Email Letter Intent to Check emails for Based on 2 Days CMO Staff  
OVCA endorsement. approved  Campus Maintenance 
(ovca.upcebu@up.edu.p  Fiscal Policy Office  
h) cc. CMO if needed. and 
 Operations 
Note: Online Reservation Committee 
Form serves as an (FPOC) fees 
approved letter of intent, 
but student organizations 
will provide a letter of 
intent endorsed by their 
respective 
advisers/deans 

2. Check the availability of  15 Minutes CMO Staff  
the facilities (on a first- Check emails from Airslate for Campus Maintenance 
come-first-served basis) Reviews, calculate fees for Office 
through our UP Cebu Personnel Overtime, and endorse 
website: upcebu.edu.ph. forms for approval to the Office of 
 the Vice Chancellor for 
2.1 click Online Forms Administration  
2.2 click Calendar.  
 The client received email 
 notification that the Campus 

3. Fill up the Reservation Maintenance Office completed 15 Minutes CMO Staff  
Form on the UP Cebu their request. Campus Maintenance 
website: upcebu.edu.ph  Office 

 
Note: attached the 
approved letter through 

401



this UP Cebu website for 
the Student Organization 

 
 
 
 OVCA approved and   OVCA Staff and 

endorsed the Accounting Vice Chancellor for 
Office to assess the fees Administration (VCA) 

Office of the Vice 
Chancellor for 
Administration 

    
Accounting Office to review and Accounting staff in-

calculate fees. charge 
 Accounting Office 

4. The Client received an    
email notification and    
processed the payment   

15 minutes 
of fees and paid to the Check Google Drive Online CMO Staff  
CASH office or through Payment has been done Campus Maintenance 
Bank Transfer.  Office and Cash 
 Office Staff 
(cc.’d: OVCA, CMO, 
SSU, and Cash Office 
 
4.1 Online Transfer 
post their proof of details 
through our UP Cebu 
website upcebu.edu.ph 
 
Payment Form 

 

402



4.2 Cash Office Cashier's Office receives           Cashier Staff 
 payment Cash Office 

5. Client notify/email their Check email if payment has 15 minutes CMO Staff  
proof of payment to been made. Campus Maintenance 
cmo.upcebu@up.edu.ph Office 
if payment has been 
made through to the 
Cash Office 

      6. Inform Security and           Confirms booking and  Guard/SSU Staff 
Safety Unit (SSU)  enforces relevant action Safety and Security 

Office 
TOTAL None 3 Days  

 
Notes:  

1. PROCESSING TIME: Within one day (accepts reservations from within a month only, except for very important UP activities, filling 
up of form can be earlier but not later than 3 days before the actual use of facilities). 

2. Approved reservations may be canceled or transferred to other venues/facilities in the event of urgent or unforeseen unit-wide 
events hosted by the UP Cebu Administration. 

 

2. Technical Support 

The CMO provides technical and other engineering support for clients for their activities using UP Cebu equipment.  
 

Office of Division CMO 

Classification Complex 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government of Citizen 

Who may avail Outsiders from other government agencies, universities, private sector, 
other UP units 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

403



Request Form  

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 

Request Letter/Proposal Comments/ Remarks; None 5 Days Head of CMO/Foreman 
Depends upon the Nature of Campus Maintenance 
the proposal/request  Office 

                                                      TOTAL None 5 Days  

 
Note:  

1. PROCESSING TIME: Depends on the situation 
  

404



 

 

3. Concessionaire’s request for booking of facilities and utilities 

This is to assist concessionaires and UP students in booking/reservation of the facilities/utilities They may support in person, on the 
phone, online or a combination of these. They answer questions and make suggestions and reservations of facilities in advance. 
 
 

Office of Division CMO 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2B – Government of Business 

Who may avail Outsiders/ Concessionaires and UP Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Letter of Intent  
Request Form  
Electrical Payment 
Concessionaires Bond 
Sanitary Permit (photocopy) ( for HSU) 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

Request Letter/Proposal Approval Issues copy request  3 Days CMO Staff  
from OVCA and OC  Campus 

Maintenance Office 

Computes for Electrical       100/day  Cashier Staff 
Payment Cash Office 

Concessionaire Bond Concessionaire  CMO Staff  
Bond of P200.00 – 

405



will be returned Campus 
after the event Maintenance Office 

 

                                                 TOTAL 100/Day 3 Days  

 

 

 

4. Computation for Power and Water Supply 

Estimate/calculate and compute the power consumption and water supply of the customers. 
 

Office of Division CMO 

Classification Complex 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government of Citizen, G2B – Government of Business 

Who may avail Outsiders and UP Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Request Letter  
Sub meter reading  

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

Request Letter/Proposal Comments/Remarks;  Depends None 5 Days Head of CMO/ 
upon the Nature of the Foreman 
proposal/request  Campus 

Maintenance Office 

                                                      TOTAL None 5 Days  

 
Note:  

406



1. For outsider with fees depends of the computation 
 
 

5. Job Order Requests  

 
A job order request is usually a task or a job for UP Cebu constituents to address maintenance or other concerns. Such an order may 
be from a customer request or created internally within the organization. Job orders may also be created as follow ups to Inspections. 
A job order request can be done immediately or depends on the availability of the skilled workers/janitors and materials/equipment 
needed. 

 

Office of Division CMO 

Classification From Simple to Highly Technical  

This depends upon the nature of the job requested; availability of the materials; availability 
of the skilled workers/ janitors. Urgent requests are attended to promptly. 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government of Citizen 

Who may avail UP Cebu Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Job Order Request Form CMO 

FEES TO PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME 

BE PAID RESPONSIBLE 

Fills out of Job Order online   Students  
Form upcebu.edu.ph 
 1. Receives form  5 Minutes CMO Staff 

 Campus 
Maintenance Office 

    

407



2. Assign staff to do the job 3-20 days CMO Staff  

 Campus 
Maintenance Office 

3. Confirm to the customer  20 Minutes CMO Staff  
after job completion Campus 

Maintenance Office 

4.     Files Job Order request  5 Minutes CMO Staff  
completed  Campus 

Maintenance Office 

TOTAL None 3-20 days  

 
Note:  

1. First come first served basis, overall total PROCESSING TIME can be done on the nature of the job and the availability of the 
Skilled workers and Materials 

 
 

 

 

INTERNAL SERVICES 
 
 

1. Reservation of Facilities, Equipment and Vehicles  
This is to assist UP Cebu constituents in booking the facilities and vehicles in UP Cebu subject to availability. Service support is 
extended in person, on the phone, online, or a combination of these avenues. They answer questions and make suggestions and 
reservations about facilities in advance. 
 
 
 

408



Office of Division CMO 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government of Citizen, G2G - Government of Government 

Who may avail UP Cebu Faculty, REPS, Administrative Staff   

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

 online  

Letter of Intent from Client addressed to the Chancellor through the  (https://www.upcebu.edu.ph/reservation-forms/) 

Vice Chancellor for Administration (email to: ovca.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
cc: cmo.upcebu@up.edu.ph 

Reservation Form thru online link (attached the approved letter) 
(https://www.upcebu.edu.ph/reservation-forms/) 
 

FEES TO BE PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME 

PAID RESPONSIBLE 

1. Check availability of the Confirm the availability of No fees are 2 Days CMO Staff  
facilities (on a first-come- the facilities and/or imposed on  Campus Maintenance 
first-served basis) equipment with a letter of curricular and Office  
through online intent administrative 

2.  Email Letter Intent to Check email for activities of 30 Minutes CMO Staff  
OVCA cc. CMO endorsement. UP Cebu Campus Maintenance 

 constituents, Office  
3.Fill up the Reservation Form Reviews, calculates fees including the 30 Minutes CMO Staff  
(Note: attached the approved and endorses form for approved 

Campus Maintenance 
letter ) through this link: assessment of fees to the calendar of 

Office  
 Accounting Office activities of 

upcebu.edu.ph duly 

 accredited 

Vehicle Reservation student 

409



 Accounting Office assesses organizations.   Accounting staff in-
the fees Extra- charge 

curricular and Accounting Office 
 OVCA  approval send email other income-   OVCA Staff and 

to the client to inform ready generating Vice Chancellor for 
for payment activities are Administration (VCA) 

 however Office of the Vice 
 charged with Chancellor for 

fees per Administration 
4. Received approved request Cashier's Office receives approved  Cashier Staff 
through email and processed payment FPOC  Cash Office 
payment of fees and pay to (Fiscal Policy 
CASH office or through Bank and 
Transfer  Operations 
5. Provide a copy to SSU Confirms booking and enforces Committee)  Guard/SSU Staff 

relevant action guidelines. Safety and Security 
 Office 

TOTAL None 3 Days  

 
Notes:  

1. PROCESSING TIME: Within one day (accepts reservation from within a month only, except for very important UP activities, filling 
up of form can be earlier but not later than 3 days before the actual use of facilities). 

2. Requests with no fees required, skip steps 4 and 6. 
3. The client shall shoulder fees for CMO staff for overtime during weekends and after office hours. 
4. All requests for waived fees and/or discounts would be endorsed by the OVCA to the Office of the Chancellor for approval.  

 

 
 

410



2. Job Order Request 

 
A job order request is usually a task or a job for UP Cebu constituents to address maintenance or other concerns. Such an order may 
be from a customer request or created internally within the organization. Job orders may also be created as follow-ups to Inspections. 
A job order request can be done immediately or depends on the availability of skilled workers/janitors and materials/equipment 
needed. 

 

Office of Division CMO 

Classification From Simple to Highly Technical  

This depends upon the nature of the job requested; the availability of the materials; 
availability of the skilled workers/ janitors. Urgent requests are attended to promptly. 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government of Citizen 

Who may avail UP Cebu Faculty, REPS, Administrative Staff  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Job Order Request Form CMO 

FEES TO PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME 

BE PAID RESPONSIBLE 

Fills out of Job Order online   UP Faculty/ Staf 
Form (upcebu.edu.ph) 
 Receive email notification  5 Minutes CMO Staff 

from Airslate Campus 
 Maintenance Office 

Assign staff to do the job  3-20 days CMO Staff  

 Campus 
Maintenance Office 

411



 Confirms to the customer  20 Minutes CMO Staff  
after job completion Campus 

Maintenance Office 

Files Job Order request  5 Minutes CMO Staff  
completed  Campus 

Maintenance Office 

TOTAL None 3-20 days  

 
Note:  

2. First come first served basis, overall total PROCESSING TIME can be done on the nature of the job and the availability. 
 
 

3. Technical Support 

The CMO provides technical and other engineering support for clients for their activities using UP Cebu equipment.  
 

Office of Division CMO 

Classification Complex 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government of Citizen 

Who may avail UP Cebu Faculty REPS and Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Request Form  

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 

Request Letter the Vice Comments/ Remarks; None 5 Days Head of CMO/Foreman 
Chancellor for Administration Depends upon the Nature of Campus Maintenance 
through Head of CMO the proposal/request  Office 

412



 
                                                      TOTAL None 5 Days  

 
Note:  Processing time depends on the situation and/or nature of the problem. 
 

4.Computation for Power and Water Supply  

Estimate/calculate and compute the power consumption and water supply of the customers. 
 

Office of Division CMO 

Classification Complex 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government of Citizen 

Who may avail UP Cebu Faculty and Staff  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Request Letter the Vice Chancellor for Administration through Head of  
CMO  

 
Sub meter reading 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

Request Letter/Proposal Comments/Remarks;  Depends None 5 Days Head of CMO/ 
upon the Nature of the Foreman 
proposal/request  Campus 

Maintenance Office 

                                                      TOTAL None 5 Days  

 
 

413



 

 

 

 

Minor Rehabilitation of Facilities  

Rehabilitation of facilities include repair, alterations, and additions while preserving those portions or features for minor cases only.  
Clients can submit request letters/proposals with the approval of the Chancellor, subject to materials availability. 
 

Office of Division CMO 

Classification Complex 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government of Citizen 

Who may avail UP Cebu Faculty, REPS and Administrative Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

 Request Letter/Proposal addressed to the Chancellor through the Vice  
Chancellor for Administration 

 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

Submits Request Letter/Proposal Endorses request and forwards to the None 1 Day Head of CMO/ Foreman 
to the CMO Office of the Vice Chancellor for Campus Maintenance 

Administration Office 

 OVCA endorses request to the Office    
of the Chancellor 

 The Office of the Chancellor    
approves/disapproves request 

414



 Receives approved requests from the  6 Days  
Office of the Chancellor and takes 
action  

                                                      TOTAL  7 Days  

  

415



FEEDBACK AND COMPLAINTS MECHANISM 
How to send feedback You may file feedback/complaints using our feedback form at our office 

or directly email the office at ovca.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
How feedbacks are The office receives the feedback and sorts. For suggestions, the office investigates proactive solutions or 
processed reevaluation of protocols. 

1. Reevaluation of process 
2. Corrective action 
3. Organizational improvement 

How to file a complaint You may file feedback/complaints with our feedback form at our office or directly email the office at 
ovca.upcebu@up.edu.ph attaching the signed formal complaint. 

How complaints are 1. The office receives the complaint and directs the processing to proper authority.  
processed 1.1 For suggestive complaints, the office will look for proactive methods and will assess the validity of the 

complaint.  
2. For formal complaints, the office shall do the following: 

1.1 Complaint processing 
1.2 Complaint investigation 
1.3 Corrective action 
1.4 Complaint resolution 
1.5 Organizational improvement 

Contact information The numbers are at:  
(032) 232 8187 local 306 
 
Email at: 
ovca.upcebu@up.edu.ph 

  

416



 

417



 

 
HEALTH SERVICES UNIT (HSU) 

EXTERNAL SERVICES 
Note: Processing time does not include waiting time, which could vary depending on the number of patients waiting in line. 

1. Medical Consultation 
 

Doctor reviews a patient's medical history, examines the patient, and makes recommendations as to care and treatment 
 

Office or Division: Health Services Unit 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail: Students and dependents of faculty, staff and REPS, canteen staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Presence of patient N/A 

FEES TO BE PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME 

PAID RESPONSIBLE 

    Nurse 
1. Walks into clinic reception 1. Receives patient for recording and  

5 Minutes Health Services 
area for consultation vital signs taking  Unit 

 
  5 Minutes for simple 

2. Provides medical consultation,  
  medical conditions 

examination and evaluation, and Doctor 
2. Proceeds to the doctor ‘s None  

instruction, treatment, issuance of Health Services 
room for consultation 30 Minutes for 

prescription for medicines or request Unit 
complex medical 

for diagnostic tests etc. 
condition 

3. Returns back to the clinic  Nurse 
3. Dispenses medicine and gives 

reception for dispensing of 10 Minutes Health Services 
treatment instruction to the patient 

medicine Unit 

 TOTAL None 50 Minutes  

 1 

418



 

 

 
2. BP/ V/S monitoring 
To check on the blood pressure and vital signs of patients for monitoring 

 
 

Office or Division: Health Services Unit 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail: Students, canteen staff, dependents of employees 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Presence of patient N/A 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Proceeds to take the patients   
1. Walks into clinic reception  Nurse 

vital signs and records this in 5 Minutes 
area for V/S monitoring Health Services Unit 

the logbook 
None 

2. Client with abnormal V/S is  
2. Provides medical Doctor 

referred to the doctor for 15 Minutes 
consultation and evaluation Health Services Unit 

management 
 TOTAL None 20 Minutes  

 2 

419



 

 

 
3. Issuance of Request for diagnostic test, specialist, or admission referral 

 
Transfer of care for a patient from one clinician or clinic to another by request 

 
 

Health Services Unit 
Office or Division: 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail: Students and dependents of employees, canteen staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Presence of patients N/A 

FEES TO BE PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME 

PAID RESPONSIBLE 

1. Proceeds to clinic  Nurse 
1. Receives the patient 5 Minutes 

reception area  Health Services Unit 

2. Client is brought to the 2. Issues a referral for laboratory/ None   
Doctor 

doctor’s room for imaging, specialist consult or 20 Minutes 
Health Services Unit 

issuance of referral admission 

 TOTAL None 25 Minutes  

 3 

420



 

 

4. Issuance of Medical Certificate/ Fitness clearance for scholarship or physical activity or training or 
enrolment (of old students) 

 
To issue a written statement that attests to the result of a medical examination of a patient, for scholarship or physical activity or training 
or enrolment (old students) and for other purposes. 

 
Office or Division: Health Services Unit 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail: Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Presence of patient  
Medical examination form (if available) 
Lab test/ imaging test results (if available) 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Proceeds to the clinic 1. Receives the patient, takes vital  Nurse 
 5 Minutes 

reception area signs and records it Health Services Unit 

2. Client is brought to doctor’s 2. Physical examination and None   
room for evaluation and evaluation of patient together Doctor 

20 Minutes 
issuance of medical with lab results and issuance of Health Services Unit 
certificate medical certificate 

 TOTAL None 25 Minutes  

 4 

421



 

 

5. Issuance of medical certificate for Leave of Absence (LOA - absence from class) 

 
To issue a written statement that attests to the result of a medical examination of a patient for LOA (absence from class) 

 
Office or Division: Health Services Unit 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail: Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Presence of patient 

N/A 
Lab test/ imaging test result (if available) 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Proceeds to clinic reception 1. Receives the patient, takes vital   
Nurse 

 5 Minutes 
area signs and records it Health Services Unit 

 
None   

2. Client is brought to the doctor’s 2. Physical examination of patient, 
Doctor 

room for evaluation and evaluates lab results and 20 Minutes 
Health Services Unit 

issuance of medical certificate issuance of medical certificate 

 TOTAL None 25 Minutes  

 5 

422



 

 

6. Signing of University Clearance 

 
To sign University clearance of students/alumni for whatever purpose it may serve them 

 
Office or Division: Health Services Unit 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail: Students and Alumni 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
University Clearance form From HRDO/OUR 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

  
1. Presents clearance 1. Receives the documents and checks if 

form to clinic reception  Nurse 
5 Minutes 

client has obligations Health Services Unit 
area None 

Doctor 
2. Signs the clearance form 5 Minutes 

Health Services Unit 
 TOTAL None 10 Minutes  

 6 

423



 

 

7. Processing of Pre employment Medical Examination 
 

To screen individuals for risk factors and medical conditions that may limit their ability to perform safely and effectively 
 

Office or Division: Health Services Unit 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail: Applicants for employment 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Laboratory/ imaging test results 

HRDO/ HSU 
Pre-employment medical form and pre enrolment medical form 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

     
1. Proceeds to clinic 1.  Receives and checks the   

Nurse 
reception area and completeness of documents; takes  5 Minutes 

Health Services Unit 
presents the documents vital signs and records it  

None 
  

2. Examines and evaluates the patient;  
 

2. Client is brought to the evaluates also the test results and Doctor 
30 Minutes 

doctor for evaluation issues pre-employment or pre- Health Services Unit 
enrolment medical certificate 

 TOTAL None 35 Minutes  

 7 

424



 

 

8. Request for Immunization/ Vaccination 
 

To administer immunization/ vaccination upon request of an individual 
 

Office or Division: Health Services Unit 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail: Students, dependents of employees 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Presence of patient  

FEES TO BE PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME 

PAID RESPONSIBLE 
     
1. Proceeds to clinic 1.1 Receives and accommodates the  Nurse 

2 Minutes 
reception patient  Health Services Unit 

 
  

1.2 Evaluates the patient and  Doctor 
 

prescribes the immunization Health Services Unit 
None 5 Minutes 

required (to be bought by patient or 
ordered for delivery) 

2. Reservation of  Usually done 2 days Doctor 
requested prescribed 2. Confirms reservation before desired Health Services Unit 
vaccine schedule 

Cost of vaccine  
3. Returns as scheduled 3. Gives the immunization shot to the Doctor 

(if ordered for 10 Minutes 
for the immunization patient Health Services Unit 

delivery) 

  Cost of vaccine  
2 Days, 

TOTAL (if ordered for 
17 Minutes 

delivery) 

 8 

425



 

 

9. Dental Consultation 
A visit with your dental care provider where you can discuss your issues, concerns, and treatment options 

 
 

Office or Division Health Services Unit 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Students and dependents of employees 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Presence of patient N/A 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Patient walks in the clinic 1. Receives patient and checks for  5 Minutes Nurse 
reception availability of schedule and responds  

to the query Health Services Unit 
 

2. Patient is brought into the 2. Provides consultation, examination    
dentist room for and evaluation of dental treatment,   Dentist 
consultation issues prescription for medicines and/ None 10 Minutes 

or request for dental x-rays and post- Health Services Unit 

operative instructions. 

3. Patient is referred to the 3. Dispenses medicine if needed  Nurse 
reception area for the 5 Minutes 
dispensing of medicine Health Services Unit 

TOTAL None 20 Minutes  

 9 

426



 

 

10. Oral Prophylaxis 
 

Employing any of a variety of treatments of the teeth and adjacent tissues to restore or maintain normal oral health and function 
 

Office or Division Health Services Unit 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Students, dependents of employees 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Presence of the patient N/A 

PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING TIME 

RESPONSIBLE 

1. Patient walks into the 1. Receives and  3 Minutes Nurse 
clinic reception for Oral accommodates Health Services Unit 
Prophylaxis patient 

2. Dental Patient needs to 2. Receives payment Prophylaxis is free 2 Minutes Cash Office Staff 
pay to the cashier’s office and issues receipt to once a year for Cash Office 
before the treatment and be presented to the students and Php 
present the receipt to the HSU 60.00 for dependents 
Dentist 

3. Patient is brought to the 3. Provides evaluation,  20 Minutes for mild cases Dentist 
dentist’s room for examination and 30 Minutes for moderate Health Services Unit 
treatment doing the proper cases 

treatment procedure 
45 Minutes for severe or 

heavy cases 

4. Patient is released from   5 Minutes Dentist 
the treatment area Health Services Unit 

TOTAL Php 60.00 25 Minutes for mild cases  

 10 

427



 

  35 Minutes for moderate  

cases 

50 Minutes for severe or 
heavy cases 

 

 11 

428



 

 

 
11. Dental Extraction 

This is a process of removing a tooth from the dental alveolus (socket) in the alveolar bone. 
 

Office or Division Health Services Unit 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Students, dependents of employees 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Presence of patient N/A 

PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID 

TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Patient walks in the clinic 1. Receives and  3 Minutes Nurse 
reception area for tooth filling accommodates patient Health Services Unit 

2. Dental Patient needs to pay to 2. Receives payment and Php 50.00 /tooth 2 Minutes Cash Office Staff 
the cashier’s office before the issues receipt to be Cash Office 
treatment and present the presented to the HSU 
receipt to the Dentist 

3. Patient is brought to the 3. Provides evaluation and  1 Hour depending Dentist 
dental room examination of the case and on the severity of the Health Services Unit 

do the procedure case 

4. Patient is released from the     
treatment area 

TOTAL Php 50.00 /tooth 1 Hour, 5 Minutes  

 12 

429



 

 

 
12. Dental Filling 

 
A dental filling is a way to restore a tooth damaged by decay back to its normal function and shape 

 
Office or Division Health Services Unit 

Classification Simple to Highly Technical 

Type of Transaction G2C- Government to Citizen 

Who may avail Students and dependents of employees 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Presence of patient N/A 

PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID 

TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Patient walks in the clinic 1. Receives and accommodates Php 75.00 dental 5 Minutes Nurse 
reception area for dental patient filling/tooth Health Services Unit 
filling Patient needs to 

2. Patient is brought to the 2. Provides evaluation and pay in the cash 1 Hour Dentist 
dental room examination of the case and office before 

Health Services Unit 
do the procedure treatment and 

present the receipt 
3. Patient is released from the    

to the Dentist 
treatment area 

TOTAL Php 75.00 dental 1 Hour,  
filling/tooth 5 Minutes 

 13 

430



 

 
 

INTERNAL SERVICES 
 

1. Processing of E-Hope Reimbursements 

The processing of claims of reimbursement of hospital expenses of employees under E-HOPE program 
 

Office or Division: Health Services Unit 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail: Faculty, REPS and Administrative Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Patients hospitalization record 

From the hospital 
Hospital billing/ statement of account 

Human Resource Development Office 
Receipts 

(HRDO) 
eHope claim form 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. HRDO submits the 
1. Receives the documents and   

Nurse 
patient’s documents to  2 Minutes 

forwards them to the doctor Health Services Unit 
HEALTH SERVICES  
UNIT  

2. Examines the documents for None  
 

completeness; evaluates claims and Doctor 
1 Day 

determines Phil Health case rate Health Services Unit 
3. Issues patient claims summary 

 1 Day,  
TOTAL None 

2 Minutes 

 14 

431



 

 
 

2. Medical Consultation 
 

Doctor reviews a patient's medical history, examines the patient, and makes recommendations as to care and treatment 
 

 
Office or Division: Health Services Unit 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2G – Government to Government 

Who may avail: Faculty, REPS and Administrative Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Presence of patient N/A 

FEES TO BE PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME 

PAID RESPONSIBLE 

  
1. Client walks into clinic  Nurse 

1. Receives and accommodates; takes  
reception area for 5 Minutes Health Services 

vital signs and records it 
consultation  Unit 

 
 5 Minutes for simple 

2. Provides medical consultation, None  
medical conditions 

2. Client is brought to the examination and evaluation, and Doctor 
 

doctor ‘s room for instruction, treatment, issuance of Health Services 
30 Minutes for 

consultation prescription for medicines or request Unit 
complex medical 

for diagnostic tests etc. 
condition 

3. Client is referred back to   Nurse 
3. Dispenses medicine and gives 

the clinic reception for 10 Minutes Health Services 
treatment instruction to the patient 

dispensing of medicine Unit 

 TOTAL None 50 Minutes  

 15 

432



 

 

3. BP/ V/S monitoring 

To check on the blood pressure and vital signs of patients for monitoring 
 
 

Office or Division: Health Services Unit 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail: Faculty, REPS and Administrative Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Presence of patient N/A 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Client walks into clinic 1. Proceeds to take the patients   
 Nurse 

reception area for V/S vital signs and records this in 5 Minutes 
Health Services Unit 

monitoring the logbook 
None 

2. Client with abnormal V/S is  
2. Provides medical Doctor 

referred to the doctor for 15 Minutes 
consultation and evaluation Health Services Unit 

management 
 TOTAL None 20 Minutes  

 16 

433



 

 

4. Issuance of Request for diagnostic test, specialist, or admission referral 

Transfer of care for a patient from one clinician or clinic to another by request 
 

 
Health Services Unit 

Office or Division: 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail: Faculty, REPS and Administrative Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Presence of patients N/A 

FEES TO BE PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME 

PAID RESPONSIBLE 

1. Client proceeds to clinic 1. Receives and accommodates  Nurse 
5 Minutes 

reception area the patient  Health Services Unit 

2. Client is brought to the 2. Issues a referral for laboratory/ None   
Doctor 

doctor’s room for imaging, specialist consult or 10 Minutes 
Health Services Unit 

issuance of referral admission to the patient 

 TOTAL None 15 Minutes  

 17 

434



 

 

5. Issuance of Medical Certificate/ Fitness clearance for scholarship or physical activity or training or 
enrolment 

To issue a written statement that attests to the result of a medical examination of a patient, for scholarship or physical activity or training; 
and for other purposes. 

 
Office or Division: Health Services Unit 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail: Faculty, REPS and Administrative Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Presence of patient  
Medical examination form (if available) 
Lab test/ imaging test results (if available) 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Client proceeds to the clinic 1. Receives the patient, takes vital  Nurse 
 5 Minutes 

reception area signs and records it Health Services Unit 

2. Client is brought to doctor’s 2. Physical examination and None   
room for evaluation and evaluation of patient together with Doctor 

20 Minutes 
issuance of medical lab results and issuance of Health Services Unit 
certificate medical certificate 

 TOTAL None 25 Minutes  

 18 

435



 

 

6. Issuance of medical certificate for Leave of Absence (LOA - absence from work) 

 
To issue a written statement that attests to the result of a medical examination of a patient for LOA (absence from class or work) 

 
Office or Division: Health Services Unit 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail: Faculty, REPS and Administrative Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Presence of patient 

N/A 
Lab test/ imaging test result (if available) 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Client proceeds to Clinic 1. Receives the patient, takes vital   
Nurse 

 5 Minutes 
reception area signs and records it Health Services Unit 

 
None   

2. Client is brought to the doctor’s 2. Physical examination of patient, 
Doctor 

room for evaluation and evaluates lab results and 15 Minutes 
Health Services Unit 

issuance of medical certificate issuance of medical certificate 

 TOTAL None 20 Minutes  

 19 

436



 

 

7. Signing of University Clearance 

 
To sign University clearance of employees for whatever purpose it may serve them 

 
Office or Division: Health Services Unit 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail: Faculty, REPS and Administrative Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
University Clearance form From HRDO/OUR 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

  
1. Client presents 1. Receives the documents and checks if 

clearance form to clinic  Nurse 
5 Minutes 

client has obligations Health Services Unit 
reception area None 

Doctor 
2. Signs the clearance form 5 Minutes 

Health Services Unit 
 TOTAL None 10 Minutes  

 20 

437



 

 

8. Processing of Medical Examination for Employees 
 

To screen individuals for risk factors that may limit their ability to perform safely and effectively 
 

Office or Division: Health Services Unit 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2G– Government to Government 
Who may avail: Newly hired employees 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Laboratory/ imaging test results 

HRDO/ HSU 
Pre-employment medical form medical form 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

     
1. Client proceeds to clinic 1.  Receives and checks completeness   

Nurse 
reception area and of documents, takes vital signs and  5 Minutes 

Health Services Unit 
presents the documents records it  

None 
 2. The patient is examined and   

evaluated, the test results are  
2. Client is brought to the Doctor 

evaluated, and patient is issued pre 30 Minutes 
doctor for evaluation Health Services Unit 

employment or pre enrolment medical 
certificate 

 TOTAL None 35 Minutes  

 21 

438



 

 

9. Request for Immunization 
 

To administer immunization/ vaccination upon request of an individual 
 

Office or Division: Health Services Unit 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail: Faculty, REPS and Administrative Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Presence of patient  

FEES TO BE PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME 

PAID RESPONSIBLE 
     
1. Client proceeds to 1.1 Receives and accommodates the  Nurse 

2 Minutes 
clinic reception patient  Health Services Unit 

 
  

1.2 Evaluates the patient and  Doctor 
 

prescribes the immunization Health Services Unit 
None 5 Minutes 

required (to be bought by patient or 
ordered for delivery) 

2. Reservation of  Usually done 2 days Doctor 
requested prescribed 2. Confirms reservation before desired Health Services Unit 
vaccine schedule 

3. Client returns as Cost of vaccine  
3. Gives the immunization shot to the Doctor 

scheduled for the (if ordered for 10 Minutes 
patient Health Services Unit 

immunization delivery) 

  Cost of vaccine  
2 Days, 

TOTAL (if ordered for 
17 Minutes 

delivery) 

 22 

439



 

 

10. Dental Consultation 
A non-invasive visit with your dental care provider where you can discuss your issues, concerns, and treatment options 

 
 

Office or Division Health Services Unit 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government 

Who may avail Faculty, REPS and Administrative Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Presence of patient N/A 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Patient walks in the clinic 1. Receives patient and checks for  2 Minutes Nurse 
reception availability of schedule and responds  

to the query Health Services Unit 
 

2. Patient is brought into the 2. Provides consultation, examination    
dentist room for and evaluation of dental treatment,   Dentist 
consultation issuance of prescription for medicines None 10 Minutes 

and or request for dental x-rays and Health Services Unit 

post-operative instructions. 

3. Patient is referred to the 3. Dispenses medicine if needed  Nurse 
reception area for the 5 Minutes 
dispensing of medicine Health Services Unit 

TOTAL None 17 Minutes  

 23 

440



 

 

11. Oral Prophylaxis 
Employing any of a variety of treatments of the teeth and adjacent tissues to restore or maintain normal oral health and function 

 
Office or Division Health Services Unit 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government 

Who may avail Faculty, REPS and Administrative Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Presence of the patient N/A 

PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID PROCESSING TIME 

RESPONSIBLE 

1. Patient walks into the 1. Receives and  3 Minutes Nurse 
clinic reception for Oral accommodates Health Services Unit 
Prophylaxis patient 

2. Dental Patient needs to 2. Receives payment Prophylaxis is free 2 Minutes Cash Office Staff 
pay to the cashier’s office and issues receipt once a year for Cash Office 
before the treatment and to be presented to students and Php 
present the receipt to the the HSU 60.00 for Faculty, Staff 
Dentist 

2. Patient is brought to the 3. Provides  20 Minutes for mild cases Dentist 
dentist’s room for evaluation, 30 Minutes for moderate cases Health Services Unit 
treatment examination and 

45 Minutes for severe or heavy 
doing the proper 
treatment cases 

procedure 

3. Patient is released from   5 Minutes Dentist 
the treatment area Health Services Unit 

TOTAL Php 60.00 25 Minutes for mild cases  

 24 

441



 

  35 Minutes for moderate cases  

50 Minutes for severe or heavy 
cases 

 

 25 

442



 

 

 
12. Dental Extraction 

This is a process of removing a tooth from the dental alveolus (socket) in the alveolar bone. 
 

Office or Division Health Services Unit 

Classification Simple 

Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government 

Who may avail Faculty, REPS and administrative staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Presence of patient N/A 

PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID 

TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Patient walks in the clinic 1. Received and  2 Minutes Nurse 
reception area for tooth filling accommodates patient Health Services Unit 

2.Dental Patient needs to pay to 2. Cash offices receives Php 50.00/tooth 2 Minutes Cash Office Staff 
the cashier’s office before the payment and issues receipt Cash Office 
treatment and present the to be presented to the HSU 
receipt to the Dentist 

3.Patient is brought to the dental 3. Provides evaluation and  1 Hour depending Dentist 
room examination of the case and on the severity of the Health Services Unit 

do the procedure case 

4.Patient is released from the     
treatment area 

TOTAL Php 50.00/tooth 1 Hour,  

4 Minutes 

 26 

443



 

 

 
13. Dental Filling 

 
A dental filling is a way to restore a tooth damaged by decay back to its normal function and shape 

 
Office or Division Health Services Unit 

Classification Simple to Highly Technical 

Type of Transaction G2G _Government to Government 

Who may avail Faculty, REPS and Administrative Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Presence of patient N/A 

PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID 

TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Patient walks in the clinic 1. Receives and accommodates Php 75.00 dental 2 Minutes Nurse 
reception area for dental patient filling/tooth Health Services Unit 
filling Patient needs to 

pay in the cash 
office before 

treatment and 
present the receipt 

to the Dentist 

2. Patient is brought to the 2. Provides evaluation and  1 hour Dentist 
dental room examination of the case and Health Services Unit 

do the procedure 

3. Patient is released from the     
treatment area 

.TOTAL Php 75.00 dental 1 Hour,  
filling/tooth 2 Minutes 

 27 

444



 

 
 

FEEDBACK AND COMPLAINTS MECHANISM 
 

How to send feedback You may file feedback/complaints using our feedback form at our office 
or directly email the office at ovca.upcebu@up.edu.ph 

How feedbacks are The office receives the feedback and sorts. For suggestions, the office investigates proactive solutions or 
processed reevaluation of protocols. 

1. Reevaluation of process 
2. Corrective action 
3. Organizational improvement 

How to file a complaint You may file feedback/complaints with our feedback form at our office or directly email the office at 
ovca.upcebu@up.edu.ph attaching the signed formal complaint. 

How complaints are 5. The office receives the complaint and directs the processing to proper authority. 
processed a. For suggestive complaints, the office will look for proactive methods and will assess the validity 

of the complaint. 
6. For formal complaints, the office shall do the following: 

1.6 Complaint processing 
1.7 Complaint investigation 
1.8 Corrective action 
1.9 Complaint resolution 
1.10 Organizational improvement 

Contact information The numbers are at: 
(32) 232 8187 local 306 

 
Email at: 
hsu.upcebu@up.edu.ph

 28 

445



 

 

 29 

446



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)

EXTERNAL SERVICES

1 Issuance of Service Record as Requested by Separated Employees
Service Record is issued as requested by separated employees as a requirement for claims and other purposes.

Office of Division HRDO
Classification Simple
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen
Who may avail Separated Employees of UP Cebu

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
Online request through email or Google chat; send request through UP Cebu - HRDO
phone call.

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING
PAID TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE

1. Send request to HRDO 1. Staff in-charge prepares and None 2 Hours
email, Google chat, or prints the requested Service Administrative Assistant II
phone call indicating the Record and have it signed by the HRMO
purpose. HRDO head. HRDO

447



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
2. Claim the requested 2. Staff in-charge scans the 1 Hour
Service Record document for those who would Administrative Assistant II

opt for a soft copy and releases HRDO
the physical copy of the Service
Record to the client who
personally claims the document.

TOTAL None 4 Hours

2 Issuance of Certificate of Employment as Requested by Separated Employees
Certificate of employment is issued as requested by separated employees for future employment and other lawful purposes.

Office of Division HRDO
Classification Simple
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen
Who may avail Separated Employees of UP Cebu

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
Online Request through email, Google chat, or phone call. UP Cebu- HRDO

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING
PAID TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE

1. Send request to HRDO 1. Staff in-charge prepares and prints None 2 Hours
email, Google chat, or the requested Certificate of Administrative Assistant II
phone call indicating the Employment and have it signed by HRMO
purpose. the HRMO. HRDO

448



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
2. Claims the requested 2. Staff in-charge scans the 1 Hour Administrative Assistant II

Certificate of document for those who would opt HRMO
Employment. for a soft copy and releases the HRDO

physical copy of the Certificate of
Employment to the client who
personally claims the document.

TOTAL None 3 Hours

3 Recruitment, Selection, and Placement (RSP)
It is an HR policy to ensure transparency and fair hiring process, select a highly qualified candidate, and recruit the right people for
the University following the Equal Employment Opportunity Principle (EEOP).

Office of Division HRDO
Classification Highly Technical
Type of Transaction G2C – Government of Citizen
Who may avail Applicants for administrative and REPS positions

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE

1. Application letter
2. Personal Data Sheet
3. Transcript of Records (TOR) UP Cebu- HRDO
4. Proof of accomplishment/trainings (certificates)
5. Copy of performance rating (for administrative staff and REPs

applicants)
6. Certificate of CS Eligibility/Professional license/rating

449



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO PROCES
BE PAID SING PERSON RESPONSIBLE

TIME

1.1Administrative Assistant IV
10 Days HRDO

1.1HRDO receives the application, assesses
the qualification of applicants vis-a-vis
minimum CSC qualification standards,

1. Applicant sends complete and uploads applications to Google
application requirements to Drive.
recruitment.upcebu@up.ed None
u.ph or drops application
folder to HRDO.

3 Days
1.2 Request applicants for additional/lacking 1.2 Administrative Assistant IV

requirements and send out Background HRDO
Investigation Forms to at least three (3)
references of the applicants.

1.3Notify applicants with the interview 1 Day 1.3 Administrative Assistant IV
schedule HRDO

450



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)

2.1 The HRDO administers the
written/technical exam 1 Day 2.1 Administrative Assistant IV

HRDO

2.2 The Cluster HRMPSB/RPFC conducts 2.2 Administrative Assistant IV
the interview. 1 Day HRMO

Cluster HRMPSB/RPFC
2.3 The CU HRMPSB deliberates the

interview results and hiring documents of 2.3 Administrative Assistant IV
2. Confirms attendance to the the top-ranking applicants 1 Day HRMO

interview and written exam CU HRMPSB/RPFC

2.4 The CU HRMPSB/RPFC Secretary
prepares the endorsement and
deliberation documents for the selection 5 Days 2.4 Administrative Assistant IV/
and approval of the appointing authority, CU HRMPSB Secretary
the Chancellor.

2.5 The Appointing Authority selects the
deemed most qualified appointment to None 1 Day 2.5 Appointing
the vacant position. Authority/Chancellor

3. Considered applicant
receives congratulatory letter
and list of pre-employment 3. The HRDO prepares the basic paper and
requirements while the other appointment of the considered applicant None 1 Day 3. Administrative Assistant IV

applicants receive regret
letters.

451



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
TOTAL None 24 Days

452



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
4 Submission of Pre-Employment Requirements to HRDO

Pre-employment requirements are accomplished documents required by the University to all its new employees.

Office of Division HRDO
Classification Complex
Type of Transaction G2C – Government of Citizen
Who may avail Applicants for teaching, administrative, and REPS positions

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
Fill out and print the following:
● Personal Data Sheet (3 original copies) UP Cebu- HRDO
● Medical Certificate with medical results (1 original; 2 photocopies) + UPC Clinic and Alpha Diagnostic Center

Drug Test and Psychological Test
● Oath of Office (3 original copies)
● Statement of Assets and Liabilities (3 original copies)
● Assumption to Duty (3 original copies)
● Position Description Form (3 original copies)
● BIR TIN verification (1 original,1 photocopy) BIR
● BIR form 1902 if without TIN) (1 original; 1 photocopy)
● PSA birth certificate (1 original, 1 photocopy) PSA
● Philhealth Membership Form (2 original copies)
● Pag-ibig Membership ID verification (1 original; 1 photocopy) Pag-Ibig
● GSIS Membership Form (1 original copy)
● UP Provident Fund Membership Form (1 original copy)
● BIR 2316 (if previously employed in a different company within the Latest employer

year) (1 original, 1 photocopy)
● Transcript of Records/ True Copy of Grades (1 original; 1 photocopy) Issuing School
● Diploma/ Certificate of Graduation (present original; 2 photocopies) Issuing School

453



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
● NBI Clearance (1 original copy) NBI
● Approved resignation from previous employer (1 original; 1

photocopy) Latest employer
● Authenticated copy of Civil Service Eligibility (1 original; 1 photocopy)

Civil Service Commission
If transferred from another government agency, submit authenticated
copy of the following:

● Approved transfer from previous employer (1 original; 1 photocopy)
● Approved clearance (present original; 1 photocopy) Latest government employer
● Complete Service Record (1 original; 1 photocopy)
● Certification of Leave Credits earned (1 original; 1 photocopy)
● Certification of last salary, benefits, compensation received (1

original; 1 photocopy)

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING
PAID TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE

None 1 Day
1.1HRDO checks the completeness of Administrative Assistant IV

the documents submitted. HRDO
1. Applicants considered for

the teaching / admin/ 1.2 HRDO sends the documents to the
REPS position submits Office of the Chancellor for the 1 Day Administrative Aide IV
the pre-employment oath-taking schedule. HRDO
requirements to the
HRDO. 1.3 The Office of the Chancellor sets a 1 Day Administrative Assistant II

schedule of oath-taking Office of the Chancellor

454



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
1.4 HRDO releases appointments to

newly hired faculty and REPS after 1 Day Administrative Assistant II
their submission of complete HRDO
pre-employment documents

1.5 HRDO prepares copies of the
complete documents of the newly 2 Days Administrative Aide IV

HRDO
hired administrative staff

1.6 HRDO submits the documents to the
Civil Service Commission Field Office 1 Day Administrative Assistant IV

HRDO
TOTAL None 7 Days

5 Submission of Quarterly Foreign Travel Report
It is required by the Office of the President of the Philippines and should be submitted through the Office of the Vice President for
Administration.

Office of Division HRDO
Classification Complex
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government
Who may avail Office of the Vice President for Administration (OVPA)

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
Travel Authority copy Office of the Chancellor

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO PROCESSING
BE PAID TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE

455



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
1.1 Staff in-charge generates report 3 Days 1.1. Administrative Aide III

through the Travel Authority HRDO
documents received by HRDO from
the Office of the Chancellor.

1.2 Staff gather brief statement from the 2 Days
persons who were authorized to 1.2 Administrative Aide III
travel as a result of their trip/travel HRDO

1. OVPA reminds the None
submission of the foreign Vice Chancellor
travel report at the end of 1.3 Staff prints the report and have it 1 Day Office of the Vice Chancellor
every quarter signed by the HRMO, Vice chancellor for Administration

for Administration and by the
Chancellor HRMO

HRDO

Chancellor
Office of the Chancellor

1.4 Submits signed and scanned copy
of the report to OVPA through the 1 Day HRMO
official email of HRDO HRDO

TOTAL None 7 Days

456



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
6 Request for University Clearance by Separated Employees

All separated employees are required to accomplish a University clearance to clear them from personnel, monetary, and property
obligations.

Office of Division HRDO
Classification Simple
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen
Who may avail Retired/separated/resign employees

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
University Clearance Form UP Cebu- HRDO

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING
PAID TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE

457



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
1.1The head of office of the

separated employee signs first
as indicated in the form, followed
by other office heads up to the None

1. HRDO staff-in-charge will Chancellor:
email the separated/retired a. Office where 1 Hour a. Head of Office
employee the clearance form Clearance is initiated Deans or Heads of
once HRDO receives the Administrative Offices
approved
separation/retirement. b. Accounting Office 1 Hour b. Chief

Accounting Office

c. SPMO 1 Hour c. Chief
Supply and Property
Management Office

d. Budget Office 30 Minutes d. Chief
Budget Office

e. Cash Office 30 Minutes e. Chief
Cash Office

f. University Library 30 Minutes f. Chief
University Library

g. HRMO 30 Minutes g. HRMO
HRDO

458



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
h. Legal 30 Minutes h. Chief

Legal Office

i. Vice Chancellor for 30 Minutes i. Vice Chancellors
Administration/Acade Office of the Vice
mic Affairs Chancellor for

Administration/Academic
Affairs

j. Chancellor 1 Hour j. Chancellor
Office of the Chancellor

1.2 The Office of the Chancellor
2. Fill out the necessary returns the signed University 30 Minutes Administrative Aide VI

information and start with the Clearance to the HRDO Office of the Chancellor
college or office you once
belonged to

1.3 HRDO notifies the separated 30 Minutes Administrative Assistant II
3. Separated employee waits employee via phone call or email HRDO

for the signed University after the University Clearance
Clearance form. form is completely signed.

TOTAL None 1 Day

459



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
7 Processing of Retirement Benefits of Retired Employees

The processing of retirement benefits for retired employees is an HR procedure aimed at ensuring timely disbursement of their
retirement claims.

Office of Division HRDO
Classification Highly Technical
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen
Who may avail Retired employees

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
Application Forms for the retirement benefits: UP Cebu- HRDO

● University Clearance
● GSIS retirement/separation
● Pag-Ibig
● Application for Terminal Leave to be applied with DBM
● ESRP / FSL
● Provident Fund Claim
● SALN

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING
PAID TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE

1. Retiree must submit his/her letter
of intent to retire address to the 1. OC Staff forwards the
Chancellor through proper channels approved retirement letter None 3 days Administrative Assistant II
6 months prior to his/her retirement to HRDO. HRDO
date.

460



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
2. Staff-in-charge provides the 1.1HRDO staff-in-charge assists None 2 Days Administrative Assistant II

retiree a copy of the different and facilitates the retirement HRDO
retirement benefit application forms process.
such as University Clearance,
GSIS, Pag-Ibig, UP Provident Inc.,
e-SRP and FCLB and others
through email and hard copies for 1.2 Staff-in-charges submits
the walk-in. retirement benefit application None 3 Days Administrative Assistant II

forms to GSIS, UP Provident HRDO
Fund Inc.

2. Retired employee submits to
HRDO the GSIS clearance upon 2. HRDO receives the 1 Day Administrative Assistant II
receipt of the GSIS retirement retirement clearance form from None HRDO
benefit the retiree from GSIS

3. Retired employee waits for the 3. Staff-in-charge computes
release of all the UP e-SRP and or eSRP/FSL upon completion of 7 Days Administrative Assistant II

Faculty Sick Leave Benefits the University Clearance None HRDO

4. Staff in-charge computes the
4. Submission of Claims for Terminal leave benefits and prepares Assistant II

Leave Benefits all documents on claims for 7 Days Administrative
terminal leave claims and send None HRDO
to DBM through the UP
System

TOTAL None 20 Days

461



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
INTERNAL SERVICES

1 Issuance of Service Record as requested by UP Cebu employees
The Service Record is issued upon employees' request to provide a comprehensive overview of their employment history in UP
including records from the beginning to the current period. This document serves for reconciliation of records with GSIS and other
lawful purposes.

Office of Division HRDO
Classification Simple
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen
Who may avail All Employees of UP Cebu

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
Online Request through email, Google chat, or phone call. HRDO

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING
PAID TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE

462



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
1. Send request to HRDO ve Assistant II
email, Google chat, or phone 1. Staff in-charge prepares and None 3 Hours Administrati

RMO
call indicating the purpose. prints the requested Service H

Record and have it signed by the HRDO
HRDO head

2. Claim the requested 2. Staff in-charge scans the 1 Hour Administrative Assistant II
Service Record personally document for those who would HRMO
or through email. opt for a soft copy and releases HRDO

the physical copy of the Service
Record to the client who
personally claims the document.

TOTAL None 1 Day

2 Issuance of Certificate of Employment

Certificate of Employment is issued to employees to be used for claims, loan applications, future employment, and many other lawful
purposes.

Office of Division HRDO
Classification Simple
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen
Who may avail All Employees of UP Cebu

463



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE

Online request through email, Google chat, or phone call. HRDO

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING
PAID TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE

1. Send request to HRDO 1. Staff in-charge prepares and Administrative Assistant II
email, Google chat, or prints the requested Certificate 7 Hours Administrative Aide IV
phone call indicating the of Employment and have it HRMO
purpose. signed by the HRDO head HRDO

None
2. Claims the requested 2. Staff in-charge scans the 1 Hour Administrative Assistant II

Certificate of document for those who would Administrative Aide IV
Employment. opt for a soft copy and releases HRDO

the physical copy of the
Certificate of Employment to the
client who personally claims the
document.

TOTAL None 1 Day

3 Certification of Leave Balances of Employees
Certification of Leave Balances of Employees for them to determine the record of their leave credits, and for purposes of further leave
application.

Office of Division HRDO

464



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
Classification Simple
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen
Who may avail All employees

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
Leave application form HRDO

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING
PAID TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE

1. Employee gets a copy and fills
out the Leave Application form 1.1 Staff in-charge updates
from the HRDO (for vacation leave credits of employee 30 Minutes Administrative Assistant II
leave, sick leave, special leave whether the leave applied HRMO
or other types of leave); for can be charged to VL, None HRDO
Employee email his/her SL, Special Leave, or other
application for leave to HRDO types of leave

2. Employee asks for the approval 2.1HRDO files a copy of the 30 Minutes Administrative Assistant II
of Leave application from their approved Leave HRDO
head of office and gives back to Application and updates
HRDO the approved Leave leave records.
Application Form.

TOTAL None 1 Hour

465



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
4 Issuance of Employees ID

It is an HR requirement for every employee for the purpose of identification that such an employee is a bona fide employee of the
University.

Office of Division HRDO
Classification Simple
Type of Transaction G2C – Government of Citizen
Who may avail All employees

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
ID application form online UP Cebu HRDO

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING
PAID TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE

1.1Staff-in-charge checks
submitted online consent
form for the ID.

1. Employee accomplishes ID 1.2 The Staff-in-charge
application form through prepares the list of None 1 Hour
Google Forms employees requesting a UP Administrative Aide III

ID, along with the soft copy HRDO
of their ID photo and
consent form, and submits it
to the UP system, awaiting
the release of the ID.

2. For ID replacement, submit an 3.1The Staff-in-charge submits
affidavit of loss to HRDO. the affidavit of loss to UP 1 Hour Administrative Assistant II

Cash Office
System and resubmit details

466



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
of the employee for ID
reprinting.

3. Employee claims the ID from 4.1 HRDO releases the ID to 30 minutes Administrative Aide IV
HRDO. the employee None Administrative Aide III

HRDO

TOTAL None 2 Hours

467



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
5 Application for Study Leave/ Fellowships by a faculty/admin staff / REPS

It is a privilege extended by the University to qualified faculty, administrative staff and REPS for advancement and professional growth.

Office of Division HRDO
Classification Highly Technical
Type of Transaction G2C – Government of Citizen
Who may avail Faculty, Admin Staff and REPS

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
1. Application for Leave HRDO
2. University Clearance
3. Study Leave / Fellowship Contract
4. Suretyship Agreement

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE

1. Faculty/ Employee writes
application for study leave or 1.1College CAPC endorsement

(faculty) None 7 Days College Academic
fellowship with attached Personnel Committee
certificate of admission. If Colleges
fellowship is under FRASDP, with
accomplished FRASDP Forms
and requirements

1.2Endorsement by the CU:
- APFC (faculty) 1 Day Academic Personnel

Committee
- HRDC (admin) Constituent University

468



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
- RPFC (REPS) Committee

1.3 Endorsement preparation by 7 Days HRMO
HRDO HRDO

1.4 Endorsement/ approval of the
Chancellor for submission to the 3 Days Chancellor

Office of the Chancellor
UP System

1.5HRDO provide the applicant with
the Orientation Manual for Study 1 Day HRMO
Leave / Fellowship HRDO

2. Upon approval employee 2.1HRDO provides the clearance form
applicant to accomplish the and prepare the necessary 1 Day HRMO
following: contracts HRDO
- University Clearance
- Study Leave / Fellowship

Agreement
- Suretyship agreement

3. Employee to go on Study Leave
Fellowship

TOTAL None 20 Days

469



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
6 Learning and Development of Staff/REPS

It is an HR process designed to facilitate the learning and development of every University employee.

Office of Division HRDO
Classification Highly Technical
Type of Transaction G2C – Government of Citizen
Who may avail Admin Staff and REPS

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
HRDO

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO PROCESSING
BE PAID TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE

470



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
1.1 HRDO prepares a proposal for an 7 days Administrative Aide III

in-house training for the admin staff and Administrative Aide IV
REPS based on the Individual Administrative Assistant II
Development Plan (IDP) and Training HRMO

1. Each administrative Needs Analysis (TNA) with proposed HRDO
staff and REPS must budget and submit to the following
submit an Individual office for processing: None Budget Officer
Development Plan 1 day Budget Office
(IDP) to the Human a. Budget clearance
Resource 1 day Chancellor
Development b. Approval of the Chancellor Office of the Chancellor
Committee (HRDC)
through HRDO. c. Preparation request for necessary 1 day Administrative Aide III

requirements such as materials etc. HRDO
and preparation of request.

7 days
d. SPMO conducts bidding/canvass SPMO Head

and other related work / posting to SPMO
PhiGEPS is necessary

2.1HRDO facilitates the conduct of the
training 2 Days Administrative Aide IV

HRDO
2. Staff and REPS 2.2 HRDO gives the participants the

attend the training feedback form for them to assess the
training and provides certificates of 1 Day Administrative Aide IV

HRDO
participation.

TOTAL None 20 Days

471



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
7 Submission of Performance Ratings of Administrative Staff and REPS

It is a requirement under Executive Order 292 that every officer and official of the Civil Service will be subjected to a system of
performance measure and evaluation periodically and objectively

Office of Division HRDO
Classification Highly Technical
Type of Transaction G2C – Government of Citizen
Who may avail Admin Staff and REPS

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
1. IPCR UP Cebu HRDO
2. OPCR

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING
PAID TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE

1. Each staff/head of office 1.1 HRDO staff in-charge receives None 20 Days Administrative Aide III
prepares a performance IPCR/OPCR (up to January 15 Administrative Aide IV
target (IPCR/OPCR) and and July 15 for targets) and HRMO
submits the accomplished performance rating (up to 31 HRDO
IPCR/OPCR to HRDO. January and December of the

year)
TOTAL None 20 Days

472



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
8 Application of Employees for Authority to Travel Abroad

Application for Travel Authority is a requirement for every government employee when traveling abroad for study, attendance to
trainings, and conferences

Office of Division HRDO
Classification Simple
Type of Transaction G2C – Government of Citizen
Who may avail Admin Staff and REPS

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
HRDO Form 9 – application to travel abroad HRDO

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING
PAID TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE

1. Applicant accomplishes HRDO 1.1With endorsement from the
Form 9 with the required applicants’ respective office 15 Minutes HRMO

None
heads, HRDO endorses HRDO

attachment indicated in the form
and applies for authority to
travel through UIS

2. Applicants forward 2.1OC prepares endorsement
accomplished form to endorsing for authority to travel 40 Minutes Administrative Assistant II

Chancellor
offices until the Office of the abroad Office of the Chancellor
Chancellor

3. Claim for Authority to Travel 3.1 HRDO releases Travel 5 Minutes Administrative Assistant II
Authority HRDO

473



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
TOTAL None 1 Hour

474



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
9 Request for UIS and UP mail account

UIS/UP mail account is a requirement to every employee joining the University. UIS is an information system where an employee
used in application of some online transactions such as SALN, Authority to Travel, submission of Certificates of Service among
others.

Office of Division HRDO
Classification Simple
Type of Transaction G2C – Government of Citizen
Who may avail Newly hired faculty, staff and REPS

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
● Personal Data Sheet (PDS) UP Cebu HRDO
● Signed Appointment for issuance of UP Mails

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO PROCESSING
BE PAID TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE

1.1 HRDO creates UIS/HRIS account 2 Days Administrative Aide IV
1. Newly hired employee and requests for a UP mail and UIS None HRMO

submits filled out PDS, account from the UP system HRDO
request for UIS/HRIS and helpdesk via email.
UP Mail account and wait 1.2Gives the new employee their 1 Day Administrative Aide IV
for notification from HRDO email and UIS Credentials as soon HRMO

as the helpdesk replies via email. HRDO
TOTAL None 3 Days

475



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
10Request for authority to fill vacant items

The process involves filling vacant administrative positions left by employees who have separated from the University due to
resignation, retirement, transfer, or death. The Request Authority to Hire/Fill involves an approval process up to the UP President.

Office of Division HRDO
Classification Complex
Type of Transaction G2G– Government of Government
Who may avail Offices with vacant items

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
Request for authority to Hire/Fill Form UP Cebu HRDO

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING
PAID TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE

1. Office prepares a request for HRDO assist the concerned 3 Days Administrative Aide IV
authority to fill up a vacant item office in preparing for the draft of HRMO
using the prescribed template request. HRDO
signed by the requesting officer None
(head of office).

476



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)

2.1. HRDO assists the Administrative Aide IV
concerned office in uploading the 1 day HRMO
signed Request Authority to HRDO
Hire/Fill to the UIS.

2.2 Approval of the request
authority to hire/fill of the
following:

● HRDO 4 Hours HRMO
HRDO

2. Office head or office staff ● Budget 4 Hours Budget Chief
uploads the filled out request BUDGET OFFICE
authority to hire/fill in the UIS

● VCA 4 Hours Vice Chancellor for
Administration

OVCA
● Chancellor 4 Hours Chancellor

Office of the Chancellor
● VPA 4 Hours Vice President for

Administration
Office of the Vice
President for
Administration

477



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
● UP President for 2 Day UP President

approval Office of the President

2. The requesting office waits for
the approval of Authority to Fill

TOTAL None 8.5 Days

478



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
11 Rewarding and Recognizing the Achievements of UP Cebu Employees and Service Award

It is a process required under the 2017 Omnibus Rules on Appointment and Other Human Resource Action as revised in 2018
thereby Rewarding the exemplary and outstanding achievements and recognizing the dedicated service employees as well as
retired employees.

Office of Division HRDO
Classification Highly Technical
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen
Who may avail Faculty, Admin staff and REPS

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE
HRDO

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO PROCESSING
BE PAID TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE

479



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
1.1 HRDO prepares budget proposal HRMO

concerning the annual event and 5 Days HRDO
1. Chancellor calls for submit for approval through:

Gawad Chancellor for a. Vice Chancellor for Vice Chancellor for
employees with Administration 1 Day Administration
outstanding performance Office of the Vice
and achievements and Chancellor for
Service Awards for the None Administration
retired employees and
employees who reached b. Budget Clearance 1 Day Budget Chief
25 years of service to the Budget Office
University. 1 Day

c. Approval of the Chancellor Chancellor
Office of the Chancellor

1.2Staff in-charge computes the 2 Days Administrative Assistant II
number of years in service of HRDO
service awardees.

2. Faculty and staff submits 2.1 Gawad Chancellor Committee 7 Days Gawad Chancellor
nomination with complete deliberates on the submitted papers Committee
documents as proof of of the nominees.
accomplishment to the
Gawad Chancellor
Committee 2.2 HRDO prepares the requests for Administrative Aide III

medals, plaques and other 2 Days HRMO
materials for the awards HRDO

480



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)
Administrative Aide III

3. Awarding Ceremonies 3.1 HRDO renders assistance during Administrative Aide IV
the awarding ceremonies 1 Day Administrative Assistant II

HRMO
HRDO

TOTAL None 20 Days

481



HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (HRDO)

FEEDBACK AND COMPLAINTS MECHANISM
How to send feedback You may file feedback/complaints using our feedback form at our office

or directly email the office at hrdo.upcebu@up.edu.ph
How feedbacks are The office receives the feedback and sorts. For suggestions, the office investigates proactive solutions or
processed reevaluation of protocols.

1. Reevaluation of process
2. Corrective action
3. Organizational improvement

How to file a complaint You may file feedback/complaints with our feedback form at our office or directly email the office at
hrdo.upcebu@up.edu.ph attaching the signed formal complaint.

How complaints are 1. The office receives the complaint and directs the processing to proper authority.
processed 1.1For suggestive complaints, the office will look for proactive methods and will assess the validity of the

complaint.
2. For formal complaints, the office shall do the following:

1.1Complaint processing
1.2Complaint investigation
1.3Corrective action
1.4Complaint resolution
1.5Organizational improvement

Contact information of The numbers are at:
HRDO (032) 232 8187 local 319

Email at:
hrdo.upcebu@up.edu.ph

482



EXTERNAL SERVICES 
 
1. UP Cebu WIFI Account 
Management of UP Cebu WiFi Accounts (Creation, Updating, or Recovery) for Students, and Customers 

Office or Division: Information Technology Center 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail: Officially Enrolled Students, Customers with Approved Reservation 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Valid UP ID or Latest copy of Form 5 (Student) - or - Office of the University Registrar 
Approved Facility Reservation Form indicating WiFi as a requirement Campus Maintenance Office 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Open a support ticket by 1. Review the request and validate the None 10 minutes ITC Administrative Staff 
completing the Request Form from attached requirements. (Level 1) 
(https://support.upcebu.edu.ph/ope
n.php) indicating “Information 
Technology Center / Network 
Related Concerns” as the Help 
Topic Category, input a description 
of the concern, and attach a digital 
copy of the requirement. 
 2. Resolves the request and sends None 15 minutes ITC Administrative Staff 

account credentials to the customer’s (Level 1) 
UP Mail/Email Address. 

2. Receive account credentials. 3. Requests client to accomplish None 5 minutes ITC Administrative Staff 
online Customer Satisfaction (Level 1) 
Measurement (https://bit.ly/UPCITC-
CSM24). 

3. Accomplish online Customer 3. Close ticket None 10 minutes ITC Administrative Staff 
Satisfaction Measurement (CSM) (Level 1) 

TOTAL None 40 minutes  

2. UP Mail Account 

483



Management of UP Mail Accounts (Updating, or Recovery) for Students 

Office or Division: Information Technology Center 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail: Officially Enrolled Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Valid UP ID or Latest copy of Form 5 Office of the University Registrar 
List of new Students Office of the University Registrar 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

Creation of UP Mail Account/s    
1. The Office of the University 1. Reviews request and validates 
Registrar (OUR) emails a request attached requirements 

ITC Administrative Staff 
to the ITC for a list of accounts to None 10 minutes 

(Level 1) 
be created with additional 
information. 
 2. Assign ticket to CU UP Mail ITC Administrative Staff 

 5 minutes 
Administrator (Level 1) 

 3. Creates UP Mail Account, adds to 
4 hours CU UP Mail 

corresponding Mailing List, and 
 (Bulk creation for Administrator 

sends UP Mail Credentials to student 
multiple accounts) (Level 2) 

personal email addresses. 
 4. Inform the OUR that accounts ITC Administrative Staff 

 5 minutes 
were created. (Level 1) 

2. The OUR receives confirmation 4. Requests the HRDO and student/s 
that UP accounts were created. to accomplish online Customer ITC Administrative Staff 

None 5 minutes 
Satisfaction Measurement (Level 1) 
(https://bit.ly/UPCITC-CSM24). 

3. Accomplish online Customer 5. Close ticket ITC Administrative Staff 
None 10 minutes 

Satisfaction Measurement (CSM) (Level 1) 
4 hours and 30 

TOTAL None  
minutes 

Updating or Recovery of UP Mail Account    

484



1. Open a support ticket by 1. Reviews request and validates 
completing the Request Form from attached requirements 
(https://support.upcebu.edu.ph/ope
n.php) indicating “Information 

ITC Administrative Staff 
Technology Center / UP Mail None 10 minutes 

(Level 1) 
(Google Suite)” as the Help Topic 
Category, input a description of the 
concern and attach a digital copy 
of the requirement. 
 2. Resolves the request and reverts 

ITC Administrative Staff 
necessary information to the None 15 minutes 

(Level 1) 
customer’s UP Mail. 

2. Receives response 3. Requests client to accomplish 
online Customer Satisfaction ITC Administrative Staff 

None 5 minutes 
Measurement (https://bit.ly/UPCITC- (Level 1) 
CSM24). 

3. Accomplish online Customer 4. Closes ticket ITC Administrative Staff 
None 10 minutes 

Satisfaction Measurement (CSM) (Level 1) 
TOTAL None 40 minutes  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

INTERNAL SERVICES 

485



 
1. UP Cebu WIFI Accounts 
Management of UP Cebu WiFi Account (Creation, Updating, or Recovery) for Faculty, REPS, and Staff 

Office or Division: Information Technology Center 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail: UP Cebu Employees (Faculty, REPS, or Staff) 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Endorsement from the Human Resource Development Office - or - Human Resource Development Office 
Endorsement from the direct Supervisor Direct Supervisor 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Open a support ticket by 1. Reviews request and validates 
completing the Request Form from attached requirements 
(https://support.upcebu.edu.ph/ope
n.php) indicating “Information 

ITC Administrative Staff 
Technology Center / Network None 10 minutes 

(Level 1) 
Related Concerns” as the Help 
Topic Category, input a description 
of the concern, and attach a digital 
copy of the requirement. 
 2. Resolves the request and sends 15 minutes 

ITC Administrative Staff 
account credentials to the customer’s None 

(Level 1) 
UP Mail/Email Address. 

2. Receive account credentials. 3. Requests client to accomplish None 5 minutes ITC Administrative Staff 
online Customer Satisfaction (Level 1) 
Measurement (https://bit.ly/UPCITC-
CSM24). 

3. Accomplish online Customer 3. Close ticket None 10 minutes ITC Administrative Staff 
Satisfaction Measurement (CSM) (Level 1) 

TOTAL None 40 minutes  
 

2. UP Mail Account 

486



Management of UP Mail Account (Creation, Updating, or Recovery) for Faculty, REPS, and Staff 

Office or Division: Information Technology Center 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail: UP Cebu Employees (Faculty, REPS, or Staff) 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Endorsement from the Human Resource Development Office - or - Human Resource Development Office 
Valid UP Employee ID Human Resource Development Office 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

Creation of UP Mail Account/s    
1. The Human Resource 1. Reviews request and validates 
Development Office (HRDO) attached requirements 

ITC Administrative Staff 
emails a request to the ITC for a None 10 minutes 

(Level 1) 
list of accounts to be created with 
additional information. 
 2. Assign ticket to CU UP Mail ITC Administrative Staff 

 5 minutes 
Administrator (Level 1) 

 3. Creates UP Mail Account, adds to 
corresponding Mailing List, and 

15 minutes per CU UP Mail 
informs HRDO that account  

account Administrator 
credentials were provided to the 
employee’s email address. 

2. HRDO receives confirmation 4. Requests the HRDO and 
that UP accounts were created. employee/s to accomplish online ITC Administrative Staff 

None 5 minutes 
Customer Satisfaction Measurement (Level 1) 
(https://bit.ly/UPCITC-CSM24). 

3. Accomplish online Customer 5. Close ticket ITC Administrative Staff 
None 10 minutes 

Satisfaction Measurement (CSM) (Level 1) 
TOTAL None 45 minutes  

Updating, or Recovery of UP Mail Account 
1. Open a support ticket by 1. Reviews request and validates ITC Administrative Staff 

None 10 minutes 
completing the Request Form from attached requirements (Level 1) 

487



(https://support.upcebu.edu.ph/op
en.php) indicating “Information 
Technology Center / UP Mail 
(Google Suite)” as the Help Topic 
Category, input a description of 
the concern and attach a digital 
copy of the requirement. 
 2. Resolves the request and reverts 

ITC Administrative Staff 
necessary information to the None 15 minutes 

(Level 1) 
customer’s UP Mail. 

2. Receives response 3. Requests customer to accomplish 
online Customer Satisfaction ITC Administrative Staff 

None 5 minutes 
Measurement (https://bit.ly/UPCITC- (Level 1) 
CSM24). 

3. Accomplish online Customer 4. Closes ticket ITC Administrative Staff 
None 10 minutes 

Satisfaction Measurement (CSM) (Level 1) 
TOTAL None 40 minutes  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

3. Technical Support 
Technical Support for hardware, software, network, or UP Information Systems 

488



Office or Division: Information Technology Center 
Classification: Can Vary from Simple to Technical 
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail: UP Cebu Employees (Faculty, REPS, or Staff) 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
UP Mail (Google Workspace) - or - ITC Office 
UP Outlook Email ITC Office 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Open a support ticket by 1. Administrative Staff evaluates the None 30 minutes 
completing the Request Form from request and resolves it if capable. If 
(https://support.upcebu.edu.ph/open. not, the Administrative Staff ITC Administrative Staff 
php) indicating the corresponding escalates the request to the technical (Level 1) 
help topic category, and input a team. 
description of the concern. 
 2. The assigned ITC Technical Team None 3 days (simple); Infrastructure Management 

(Infrastructure/Data Management) 5 days Team 
coordinates, performs 

(moderate); 7 - or - 
troubleshooting, and resolves the 
request. days (complex); Data Management Team 

 3. The assigned technical person None 5 minutes Assigned Technical Person 
requests the customer to accomplish 
the online Customer Satisfaction 
Measurement (https://bit.ly/UPCITC-
CSM24). 

2. Accomplish online Customer 4. Closes Ticket None 10 minutes Assigned Technical Person 
Satisfaction Measurement (CSM) 

TOTAL None 3 – 7 days  

 

489



FEEDBACK AND COMPLAINTS MECHANISM 
How to send feedback You may file feedback/complaints using our feedback form at our office 

or directly email the office at itc.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
How feedbacks are The office receives the feedback and sorts. For suggestions, the office investigates proactive solutions or 
processed reevaluation of protocols. 

1. Reevaluation of process 
2. Corrective action 
3. Organizational improvement 

How to file a complaint You may file feedback/complaints with our feedback form at our office or directly email the office at 
ovca.upcebu@up.edu.ph attaching the signed formal complaint. 

How complaints are 1. The office receives the complaint and directs the processing to proper authority.  
processed a. For suggestive complaints, the office will look for proactive methods and will assess the validity 

of the complaint.  
2. For formal complaints, the office shall do the following: 

1.1 Complaint processing 
1.2 Complaint investigation 
1.3 Corrective action 
1.4 Complaint resolution 
1.5 Organizational improvement 

Contact information The numbers are at:  
(032) 232 8187 loc (202) 
 
Email at: 
itc.upcebu@up.edu.ph 

 

490



 

491



 

OFFICE OF THE CAMPUS ARCHITECT (OCA) 
 
EXTERNAL SERVICES 
 
1. Evaluation of Pre-Project Construction Drawings 

 
Construction Phase is implemented by the winning bidder/ contractor. During the Pre-Construction of the project, the contractor is 
required to submit contract, PERT CPM and approved construction drawings. 

 
Office or Division: Office of the Campus Architect 

Classification: Highly Technical  

Type of Transaction: G2B, G2C 

Who may avail: Contractors 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Contractor 
● Contracts 

● PERT CPM 

● Architectural / Engineering Drawings 
 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 

1.  The Office of the Campus Architect 
1. Submits PERT CPM Architects 

will require the contractor to submit 
and all necessary None 3 Days Office of the Campus 

PERT CPM before the 
drawings to the OCA   Architect 

implementation of the project; 
(furnish 3 copies) 

 (TWG ) /End – user 

 
 

492



 

2.  The architects will evaluate the 5 Days Architects 
PERT CPM  Office of the Campus 
  Architect 

3. Endorses to the Vice Chancellor Vice Chancellor for 
3 Days 

for Administration Administration (VCA) 
 

 
 Office of the Vice Chancellor 

 for   Administration 

3 Days Chancellor 
4. Chancellor’s action or comments 

 Office of the Chancellor 

5. Returns a copy of decision to the OCA Staff 
1 Day 

contractor 
 Office of the Campus 

 Architect 

TOTAL None 15 Days  

  

 
 

493



 

2. Materials evaluation and approval 
 

During the construction phase, the contractor is required to submit fit-out and sample materials for approval. 

 
Office or Division: Office of the Campus Architect 

Classification: Highly Technical 

Type of Transaction: G2B, G2C 

Who may avail: Contractors  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Material sample submittal Contractor 
 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 

1. The contractor shall OCA Staff and Architects 
None 3 Days 

submit their material 1. Receives the request and evaluates Office of the Campus 
  

sample submittal form the submitted material/s Architect 
  

along with the feasible 
 (TWG ) /End – user 

sample material and 
brochure. 2. Endorses to the Vice Chancellor for  Vice Chancellor for 

3 Days 
 Administration  Administration (VCA) 

 
   

 Office of the Vice Chancellor 
   

for   Administration 
 

 
 Chancellor 

 3. Chancellor’s action on the request 3 Days 
 Office of the Chancellor 

 
 

 OCA Staff 
4. Returns materials with  

 1 Day 
result/decision to the contractor  Office of the Campus 

 Architect 

TOTAL None 10 Days  

 
 

494



 

3. Assessment of Progress Billing 
 

Project billing is to be submitted by the contractor for further evaluation of accomplishment works, with complete required documents.   

 
Office or Division: Office of the Campus Architect 

Classification: Highly Technical 

Type of Transaction: G2B, G2C 

Who may avail: Contractors 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Three (3) sets of the following: Contractor 

● Request letter to bill 

● Accomplishment report 

● Progress photographs 

● Affidavit of no Outstanding Account 

● Photocopy of Contract 

● Photocopy of Notice of Award 

● Photocopy of Notice to Proceed 

● Updated Performance Bond 

● Updated Contractor’s All Risk Insurance 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

 
 

495



 

1. Receives the request and evaluates the 3 Days 
submitted form  OCA Staff & Architects 

  Office of the Campus 
  Architect 
  (TWG ) /End – user 
  

2. Endorses the request for billing of the Contractor  2 Days End-user 

Vice Chancellor for 
Administration (VCA) 

3. Endorses the request letter to the Vice 
3 Days 

Chancellor for Administration Office of the Vice 
1. Submits the None Chancellor for   

complete set of  Administration 
documents 4. Chancellor’s action on the request  2 Days Chancellor 

    Office of the Chancellor 
  
 5. Creates DV, obligation request form and  OCA Staff 

1 Hour 
 prescribed billing form and generate DV number  

 Office of the Campus 
 through UIS  Architect 
  

6. Endorses the obligation request form to the Budget Officer 
  1 Day 

budget office Budget Office 

7. Endorses the DV to the End-user for counter 
1 Day End-user 

sign 

8. Endorses the prescribed billing form and DV to Chancellor 
3 Days 

the Vice Chancellor for Administration Office of the Chancellor 

Vice Chancellor for 
Administration (VCA) 

9. Chancellor’s action on the prescribed billing 
3 Days 

form Office of the Vice 
Chancellor for   
Administration 

 
 

496



 

OCA Staff 
10. Scans the documents for UIS attachment 1 Hour Office of the Campus 

Architect 

11. Submits to the Accounting Office for validation. 
 Accounting Staff 
*Note: If the source of fund is GAA it will be 5 Minutes 
directly deposited to their account, if not, the Accounting Office 

cash office will directly call the contractor. 

TOTAL None 18 Days,   
2 Hours, 

5 Minutes 

 

4. Preparation of Punch List and Project Close Out 
 

After a substantial accomplishment for the project and near to completion, the contractor will request for a punch list of the project for 
final turnover. The Office of the Campus Architect will release a Letter of Final Acceptance for the project if the project is done 
satisfactorily and deemed acceptable by the Chancellor. 

 
Office or Division: Office of the Campus Architect 

Classification: Highly Technical 

Type of Transaction: G2B, G2C 

Who may avail: Contractors  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Contractor 
● Request letter to conduct punch list 

 
● Building permit  

 
● Occupancy Permit 

 
● As-built Drawings 

 
 

497



 

 

Office of the Campus Architect 
● Letter of Final Acceptance 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1.  Submit request OCA Staff 
letter to conduct 1.  Receives the request 5 Minutes Office of the Campus 
punch list Architect 

2.  Executes the punch 2.  Evaluates through site inspection 1 Day Architects 
list together with the Contractor  Office of the Campus 

 3. Informs the contractor of the defects 1 Day Architect 

 4. Creates punch list report 1 Day (TWG ) 

5. Endorses the punch list to the 
 None 1 Day End – user 

Contractor 

Vice Chancellor for 
Administration (VCA) 

6. Endorses to the Vice Chancellor for 
 3 Days 

Administration Office of the Vice 
Chancellor for   
Administration 

Chancellor 
 7. Chancellor’s action on the document 2 Days 

Office of the Chancellor 

 
 

498



 

OCA Staff 
8. Sends a copy to the contractor in 1 Day 

 
order to execute the punch list  Office of the Campus 

Architect 

9. If the punch list work is completed, Architect 
1 Day 

 the office will provide a Letter of Final 
 Office of the Campus 

Acceptance Architect 

 10.Endorses the letter to the End-user 1 Day End – user 

Vice Chancellor for 
Administration (VCA) 

11.Endorses to the Vice Chancellor for 
 3 Days 

Administration Office of the Vice 
Chancellor for   
Administration 

Chancellor 
 12.Chancellor’s action on the letter 2 Days 

Office of the Chancellor 

OCA Staff 
 13.Provides a copy to the contractor 1 Day Office of the Campus 

Architect 

TOTAL None 18 Days,   
5 Minutes 

 
  

 
 

499



 

INTERNAL SERVICES 

 
1. Preparation of the Scope of Work or Terms of Reference and Drawings for the Project to be Bid Out  

 
Approved Conceptual Drawings are given by Office of the Campus Architect to the Bids and Awards Committee (BAC) as required for 
bidding purposes of the project. 

 
Office or Division: Office of the Campus Architect 

Classification: Highly Technical 

Type of Transaction: G2C 

Who may avail: End-user College or Office 
Bids and Award Committee 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Bidding documents and drawings Office of the Campus Architect 

● Scope of Work / Terms of Reference 

● Drawing Plan 

● Job Order Request 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 

1. The Bids and Awards 1. The Office of the Campus None 12 Days Architects 
Committee (BAC) will Architect, will prepare the  (TWG) 
request for scope of work scope of work or terms of 

 Office of the Campus Architect 
or terms of reference and reference, the drawings, 
the drawings for the obligation request  and the   
project to be bid out. job order request for the 

project to be bid out;  

 
 

500



 

2. Endorses the obligation  1 Day Budget Officer 
request to the Budget Office Budget Office 

3. Endorses the obligation  2 Day Vice Chancellor for Administration 
request to the Vice (VCA) 
Chancellor for Office of the Vice Chancellor for   
Administration Administration 

4. Endorses the job order  1 Day Budget Officer 
request to the Budget Office Budget Office 

5. Endorses the job order  2 Day Vice Chancellor for Administration 
request to the Vice (VCA) 
Chancellor for Office of the Vice Chancellor for   
Administration Administration 

6. Chancellor’s action on the  1 Day Chancellor 
request Office of the Chancellor 

7. The agency, Office of the  1 Day Architects 
Campus Architect, will (TWG) 
submit the job order 

Office of the Campus Architect 
request, obligation request, 
scope of work/terms of 
reference and the drawing 
to the Bids and Awards 
Committee 

TOTAL None 20 Days  

 
  

 
 

501



 

2. Preparation of Conceptual Design of the building based on the project proposal 
 

A conceptual design is done by the Campus Architect upon the request of the End-User with their respective requirements and with 
approval from the Chancellor of the project proposal. 

 
Office or Division: Office of the Campus Architect 

Classification: Highly Technical 

Type of Transaction: G2B, G2C 

Who may avail: End-User Colleges or Offices 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

End-user 
● Letter request addressed to the Chancellor 

● Schematic design of the project; 

● Presentation of the schematic design for end-user and 
Chancellor’s comment 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 

OCA staff and Architects 
1. Receives the request and 

1 Day Office of the Campus Architect 
evaluates the request None 

 (TWG ) /End – user 
1. The end-user shall 

 Vice Chancellor for 
submit their request to 
the Office of the 2. Endorses to the Vice Chancellor  Administration (VCA) 

Campus Architect. for Administration  3 Days 
Office of the Vice Chancellor for   

 Administration 
 

Chancellor 
3. Chancellor’s action on the request 2 Days 

Office of the Chancellor 

 
 

502



 

4. Prepares the conceptual design Architects 
14 Days 

of the project Office of the Campus Architect 

TOTAL None 20 Days  

 

FEEDBACK AND COMPLAINTS MECHANISM 
How to send feedback You may file feedback/complaints using our feedback form at our office 

or directly email the office at oca.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
How feedbacks are The office receives the feedback and sorts. For suggestions, the office investigates proactive solutions or 
processed reevaluation of protocols. 

10. Reevaluation of process 
11. Corrective action 
12. Organizational improvement 

How to file a complaint You may file feedback/complaints with our feedback form at our office or directly email the office at 
oca.upcebu@up.edu.ph attaching the signed formal complaint. 

How complaints are 9. The office receives the complaint and directs the processing to proper authority.  
processed b. For suggestive complaints, the office will look for proactive methods and will assess the validity 

of the complaint.  
10. For formal complaints, the office shall do the following: 

1.21 Complaint processing 
1.22 Complaint investigation 
1.23 Corrective action 
1.24 Complaint resolution 
1.25 Organizational improvement 

Contact information The numbers are at:  
(032) 232 8187 loc. 127 
 
Email at: 
oca.upcebu@up.edu.ph 

 

 
 

503



 

SAFETY AND SECURITY UNIT (SSU) 
 
EXTERNAL SERVICES 

 
1. Application for Car Pass Sticker 
 
To facilitate applicants who will avail of the UP Cebu Car Pass Sticker and ensure all requirements are met.  

 
Office or Division Safety and Security Unit 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail UP Alumni, Service Providers, Contractors, Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Safety and Security Unit 

● Application Form 

● Documentary requirement’s (Driver’s License, OR, CR) 

AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS 

 PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Gets application form from the 1. Checks and endorses the  Guard on duty at the 
guard house at the Entrance filled up application form  Entrance Gate 
Gate; Fills in the form then and forwards it to the None Safety and Security 
attaches OR, CR, and Driver’s OVCA  1 Day Officer (SSO) 
license; and Submits to the  Safety and Security Unit 
Guard at Entrance Gate  

 
 OVCA receives and  1 Day OVCA Staff/Vice 

approves the application and Chancellor for 

return the form to the client Administration (VCA) 

for payment Office of the Vice 
Chancellor for 
Administration 

 
 

504



 

Claims approved application from     
the OVCA 
Pays at the Cashier’s Office Cash Office issues receipt For Alumni:  1st   

Sticker 
PHP300.00  

Succeeding 
PHP500.00 

For  
Service 
Providers: 1st 
sticker  

PHP500.00 
Succeeding 

PHP500.00 
Motorcycle 

PHP300.00 
Students: 1st 
Sticker- 

PHP300.00 
Succeeding 
Sticker 

PHP500.00 
For Motorcycle 

PHP300.00 
Presents Official Receipt to OVCA OVCA reviews and issues   OVCA Staff 
and claims the car sticker the Car Sticker Office of the Vice 

Chancellor for 
Administration 

               TOTAL  2 Days  

                    
                    
  

 
 

505



 

2. Visitors ID Pass Issuance 
 

The Safety and Security Unit is in-charge of issuing and logging in visitors who come and gets in the University. 
 

Office or Division Safety and Security Unit 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Visitors 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Interview with post guard upon entry   Safety and Security unit 

AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS 

 PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Submits self for interview 1. Issuance of visitor’s ID      
 pass.  
2. Presents bags for Security check None Security Guards 

3 Minutes 
(inspection of bags) Safety and Security 

 
3.  Presents a valid ID 

                                                                          TOTAL None         3 Minutes  
 
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
             
  

 
 

506



 

3. Providing Security for Official School Activity 
 

To provide security details upon request for official school activities. 
 

Office or Division Safety and Security Unit 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Safety and Security Unit 

● Application Form 

● Request letter addressed to the Chancellor through the Vice 
Chancellor for Administration 

AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS 

 PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Fills out application form and - Endorses the request and forwards   

submits Request letter to SSU to the Office of the Vice Chancellor   
 for Administration (OVCA) None 3 Days SSU Personnel 
  - Safety and Security 

-  
 

 - The OVCA endorses and forwards   OVCA Staff/ VCA 
request to the Office of the Office of the Vice 
Chancellor for approval Chancellor for 

Administration 
 - The Office of the Chancellor issues   OC Staff/Chancellor 

decision Office of the 
Chancellor 

2. Claims approved request from Conducts Safety and Security   
the Office of the Chancellor Survey on the area. SSU Staff 
and submits a copy to SSU  Safety and Security 

Provides Security during the Activity. 

 
 

507



 

                                                                          TOTAL None 3 Days  
4. Facilitating reports and claims of lost items 
 
To log lost and found items within the University and facilitate in the claiming of said items. 

 
Office or Division Safety and Security unit 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Students  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

 SAFETY AND SECURITY UNIT 
PROCESSING PERSON 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID 
TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Claimants will go to the SSU 1. Logs lost and found Items for 
Office to report lost item. safe keeping 

 
2 Verifies the ownership of the SSU Staff 

None 30 Minutes 
item with claimants Safety and Security Unit 

 
3. Logs claimed item before 

releasing to its owner. 
                                                                   TOTAL None 30 Minutes  

  

 
 

508



 

5. Incident Investigation 
 

To conduct initial investigation of incidents involving the University constituents provide a written report on the incident. 
 
Office or Division Safety and Security unit 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction  G2C- Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Request Letter for Investigation addressed to the Chancellor through the Vice  
Chancellor for Administration 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 

1.   Concerned individual 1. Conducts Preliminary Investigation 
reports to the SSU incident including Interview and Evidence Gathering 
that occurred/ submits a  

SSU Investigator 
letter requesting for 2. Makes Investigation Report None 12 Days 

Safety and Security Unit 
investigation of incidents  
involving UP Cebu 3. Submits Report to the Office of the Vice 
constituents or properties. Chancellor for Administration (OVCA)  

 1. OVCA endorses to the Office of the OVCA Staff/Vice Chancellor 
Chancellor, if applicable for Administration (VCA) 

  
Office of the Vice Chancellor 

for Administration 
 1. The Office of the Chancellor takes OC Staff/ Chancellor 

  
necessary action, if applicable Office of the Chancellor 

2. Claims result of  SSU Investigator 
  

investigation, if applicable Safety and Security Unit 
                                     TOTAL None 12 Days  

 

 
 

509



 

INTERNAL SERVICES 

 
1. Application for Car Pass Sticker  

To facilitate applicants who will avail of the UP Cebu Car Pass Sticker and ensure all requirements are met.  
 
Office or Division Safety and Security Unit 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty, REPS, Administrative Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Safety and Security Unit 

● Application Form 

● Documentary requirement’s (Driver’s License, OR, CR) 

AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS 

 PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

2. Gets application form from the 1. Checks and endorses the  Guard on duty at the 
guard house at the Entrance filled-up application form  Entrance Gate 
Gate; Fills in the form then and forwards it to the None Safety and Security 
attaches OR, CR, and Driver’s OVCA  Officer (SSO) 
license; and Submits to the  Safety and Security Unit 
Guard at Entrance Gate 1 Day  

Vice Chancellor for 
Administration (VCA) 

Office of the Vice 
Chancellor for 
Administration 

 OVCA receives and  1 Day  
approves the application and 
return the form to the client 
for payment 

Claims approved application from     
the OVCA 

 
 

510



 

Pays at the Cashier’s Office Cash Office issues receipt For Faculty &   
Permanent 
Staff:  
1st Sticker – 
FREE, 
Succeeding 
Sticker 

PHP800.00 
For 
Contractual 
Employees 
1st Sticker- 

PHP300.00 
Succeeding 
Sticker 

PHP500.00 
For Motorcycle 

PHP300.00 
Presents Official Receipt to OVCA OVCA reviews and issues    
and claims the car sticker the Car Sticker 

              TOTAL  2 Days  
 

  

 
 

511



 

2. Providing Security for Official School Activity 
 

To provide security details upon request for official school activities. 
 

Office or Division Safety and Security Unit 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty, REPS, Administrative Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Safety and Security Unit 

● Application Form 

● Request letter addressed to the Chancellor through the Vice 
Chancellor for Administration 

AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS 

 PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
3. Fills out application form and - Endorses the request and forwards   

submits Request letter to SSU to the Office of the Vice Chancellor   
 for Administration (OVCA) None 3 Days SSU Personnel 
  - Safety and Security 

-  
 

 - The OVCA endorses and forwards   OVCA Staff/ VCA 
request to the Office of the Office of the Vice 
Chancellor for approval Chancellor for 

Administration 
 - The Office of the Chancellor issues   OC Staff/Chancellor 

decision Office of the 
Chancellor 

4. Claims approved request from Conducts Safety and Security   
the Office of the Chancellor Survey on the area. SSU Staff 
and submits a copy to SSU  Safety and Security 

Provides Security during the Activity. 

 
 

512



 

                                                                          TOTAL None 3 Days  
3. Facilitating reports and claims of lost items 

To log lost and found items within the University and facilitate in the claiming of said items. 
 

Office or Division Safety and Security unit 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty, REPS, Administrative Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

 SAFETY AND SECURITY UNIT 
PROCESSING PERSON 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID 
TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Claimants will go to the SSU 1. Logs lost and found Items for 
Office to report lost item. safe keeping 

 
2. Verifies the ownership of the SSU Staff 

None 30 Minutes 
item with claimants Safety and Security Unit 

 
3. Logs claimed item before 

releasing to its owner. 
                                                                   TOTAL None 30 Minutes  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                    

 
 

513



 

4. Incident Investigation  
To conduct initial investigation of incidents involving the University constituents provide a written report on the incident. 

 
Office or Division Safety and Security unit 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction  G2C- Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty, REPS, Administrative Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Request Letter for Investigation addressed to the Chancellor through the Vice  
Chancellor for Administration 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 

1.   Concerned individual 1.  Conducts Preliminary Investigation 
reports to the SSU incident including Interview and Evidence 
that occurred/ submits a Gathering 
letter requesting for  SSU Investigator 

None 12 Days 
investigation of incidents 2.  Makes Investigation Report Safety and Security Unit 
involving UP Cebu  
constituents or properties. 3.  Submits Report to the Office of the Vice 

Chancellor for Administration (OVCA)  
 1.  OVCA endorses to the Office of the OVCA Staff/Vice Chancellor 

Chancellor, if applicable for Administration (VCA) 
   

Office of the Vice Chancellor 
for Administration 

 1.  The Office of the Chancellor takes OC Staff/ Chancellor 
  

necessary action, if applicable Office of the Chancellor 
2.  Claims result of  SSU Investigator 

  
investigation, if applicable Safety and Security Unit 

                                     TOTAL   None 12 Days  
 

 
 

514



 

 
5. Safety and Security threat and Risk Assessment  

To identify threat and assess the level of threat the incident has on the University, its faculty, admin, and students. 
 

Office or Division Safety and Security Unit 
Classification Highly technical 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen 
Who may Avail Constituents in School Campus 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 SAFETY AND SECURITY UNIT 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Submission of Request letter 1. Conduct Safety and Security 
to conduct Safety and Security Threat and risk Assessment. 
Threat and Risk Assessment  Head of SSU 

None 15 Days 
 2. Report on findings Safety and Security 
2.   Approval from OVCA and OC 

for Risk Assessment Request 
                                                              TOTAL None       15 Days  

 
  

 
 

515



 

FEEDBACK AND COMPLAINTS MECHANISM 
How to send feedback You may file feedback/complaints using our feedback form at our office 

or directly email the office at ovca.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
How feedbacks are The office receives the feedback and sorts. For suggestions, the office investigates proactive solutions or 
processed reevaluation of protocols. 

13. Reevaluation of process 
14. Corrective action 
15. Organizational improvement 

How to file a complaint You may file feedback/complaints with our feedback form at our office or directly email the office at 
ovca.upcebu@up.edu.ph attaching the signed formal complaint. 

How complaints are 11. The office receives the complaint and directs the processing to proper authority.  
processed c. For suggestive complaints, the office will look for proactive methods and will assess the validity 

of the complaint.  
12. For formal complaints, the office shall do the following: 

1.26 Complaint processing 
1.27 Complaint investigation 
1.28 Corrective action 
1.29 Complaint resolution 
1.30 Organizational improvement 

Contact information The numbers are at:  
(032) 232 8187 local 306 
 
Email at: 
ssu.upcebu@up.edu.ph 

 

  

 
 

516



 

 

SUPPLY PROPERTY MANAGEMENT OFFICE (SPMO) 

EXTERNAL SERVICES 

1. Posting of Information on Opportunities at UP Cebu Posted at PhilGEPS portal 

 
A supplier or prospective bidder may inquire on information on the Invitation to Bid posted at the PhilGEPS website 
(https://www.philgeps.gov.ph/). 

 
Office of Division SPMO / BAC Secretariat 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2B – Government to Business 
Who may avail Suppliers and Contractors 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
  
Invitation to Bid SPMO 

  FEES TO PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION BE PAID 

Posts opportunities in PhilGEPS Provides Invitation to Bid Bid Docs 3 Days SPMO Staff  
website or in the UP Cebu (ITB) / Requests for Fee  Supply & Property 
Website. Quotation (RFQ) / Checklist Management Office 

TOTAL Bid Docs 3 Days  
Fee 

 

517



 

 

2. Request for Quotations of the Suppliers  
 
A supplier or prospective bidder may request for quotation for them to bid on the project. 
    

Office of Division SPMO 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2B – Government to Business 
Who may avail Suppliers 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
PPMP, PR, RMP SPMO 

  FEES TO PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION BE PAID 

Requests for Quotation Provides Request for None 3 Days SPMO Staff and BAC Staff  
(Alternative Mode of Quotation form to Suppliers Supply & Property 
Procurement, such as SVP, Management Office  
Shopping, etc.) 

TOTAL None 3 Days  
 

518



 

 

3. Issuance of Purchase Order 
 
A notice given to supplier/bidder which constitutes an accepted offer that will give rise to a perfected contract when the winning bidder 
received the same and agreed to its terms and conditions, and the bidder acted upon it. 
 

Office of Division SPMO 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2B - Government to Business 
Who may avail Supplier/Bidder 
CHECKLIST  OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

PR, Abstract, BAC Resolution and Post-Qua / Post- SPMO 
Disqualification 

  FEES TO PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION BE PAID 

Requests for the Issuance of Prepares Purchase Order and None 7 Days SPMO Staff  
Purchase Order have the authorized personnel Supply & Property 

sign it. Informs supplier Management Office 
availability of the PO for 

 
conforme.  

TOTAL None 7 Days  
      

519



 

4. Disposal of PPEs/SEs/Waste Material 
 
The SPMO regularly conducts disposal of PPEs/SEs/Waste Material. 

 
Office of Division SPMO 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail Agency/End-users 
CHECKLIST  OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

IIRUP forms SPMO 
 

  FEES TO PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION BE PAID 

End-users/SPMO initiates the SPMO staff and the Disposal None At least 30 days SPMO Staff  
disposal of unserviceable PPEs Committee conducts the Supply & Property 

regular disposal of Management Office & the 
unserviceable items in the Disposal Committee 
university in adherence to 
the DBM’s Manual on 
Disposal of Government 
Property and COA’s One 
Time Cleansing of PPEs. 

TOTAL None 30 days  
 
 

520



 

 

 

5.Request/Permit to Pull Out Equipment 
 
A request/permit routed for pull-out of materials/equipment owned by suppliers/contractors taken out of the campus.  

 
Office of Division SPMO 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Agency & Government to Citizen 
Who may avail UP Cebu Officials/Staff 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

PAR / ICS SPMO 
 

  FEES TO PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION BE PAID 

Requests for pull out of 1. Receives pull out slip. None 1 Day SPMO Staff  
equipment/materials owned by  Supply & Property 
suppliers that they used in the  Management Office 
campus. 

2. Verifies if CMO/OCA/OVCA 1 Day SPMO Staff Supply & 
has signed the form. Property Management 

Office 

3. Signs the verified pull out 1 Day SPMO Staff Supply & 
slip and returns to the Property Management 
requestor. Office 

TOTAL None 3 Days  
 
 
 
 

521



 

INTERNAL SERVICES 
 

 
1. Issuance of Purchase Order 

 
A notice given to supplier/bidder which constitutes an accepted offer that will give rise to a perfected contract when the winning bidder 
received the same and agreed to its terms and conditions, and the bidder acted upon it. 
 

Office of Division SPMO 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2B - Government to Business 
Who may avail Supplier/Bidder 
CHECKLIST  OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

PR, Abstract, BAC Resolution and Post-Qua / Post- SPMO 
Disqualification 

  FEES TO PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION BE PAID 

Requests for the Issuance of Prepares Purchase Order and None 7 Days SPMO Staff  
Purchase Order have the authorized personnel Supply & Property 

sign it. Informs supplier Management Office 
availability of the PO for 

 
conforme.  

TOTAL None 7 Days  
      

522



 

 

2. Issuance of BAC Resolution 
  

A resolution signed by the BAC Members and Head of Procuring entity stating the recommendation or approval/disapproval of 
Procurement of Goods and Services 

 
     Office of Division SPMO 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2B – Government to Business 
Who may avail Supplier 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
PR, RFQ, Abstract of Bids, Post Qualification Report SPMO 

  FEES TO PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION BE PAID 

1. Requests for BAC 1. Drafts BAC Resolution in None 1 Day SPMO Staff  
Resolution accordance with the IRR of Supply & Property 

RA 9184. Management Office  

2. Routes to BAC members for 1 Day SPMO Staff  
review and signature. Supply & Property 

Management Office 
3. HOPE or authorized person 1 Day SPMO Staff  

approves and signs it. Supply & Property 
Management Office  

TOTAL None 3 Days  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

523



 

3. Issuance of Requisition Issue Slip (RIS) 
      
A request for issuance of an item/equipment.  

 
Office of Division SPMO 
Classification Simple  
Type of Transaction G2B – Government to Business 
Who may avail Supplier 
CHECKLIST  OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

PO and Sales Invoice SPMO 
  FEES TO PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION BE PAID 
Requests for Requisition Prepares RIS and routes it for None 3 Days SPMO Staff Supply & Property 
Issue Slip (RIS) signature. Management Office 

TOTAL None 3 Days  
 
 
 
 
4.Request/Permit to Pull Out Equipment 

 
A request/permit for the usage of PPE or SE outside of the office premises.  

 
Office of Division SPMO 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Agency & Government to Citizen 
Who may avail UP Cebu Officials/Staff 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

PAR / ICS SPMO 
 

  FEES TO PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION BE PAID 

524



 

Requests for pull out  Property, 2. Receives pull out slip. None 1 Day SPMO Staff  
Plant and Equipment (PPE) and  Supply & Property 
Semi-Expendables (SE) item/s.  Management Office 

2. Verifies the PPE/SE through 1 Day SPMO Staff Supply & 
the inventory record, PAR Property Management 
and ICS. Office 

3. Signs the verified pull out 1 Day OVCA Staff  
and submits it to OVCA for Office of the Vice 
approval. Chancellor for 

Administration and               
OC Staff        

Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 3 Days  
 
 

5.Conduct a physical count of supplies / materials at the Central Store 
 

A brief conduct of physical count of inventories for the common use supplies and equipment at the Central Store. 
 
Office of Division SPMO 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail COA 
CHECKLIST  OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
  
Supplies Inventory Record SPMO 

  FEES TO PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION BE PAID 

Requests for a physical count SPMO staff conducts physical None 20 Days Central Store In-Charge 
of supplies / materials at the count of supplies and  Supply & Property 

525



 

Central Store. materials at the Central Store. Management Office 
 

TOTAL None 20 ays  
 

 

6. Conduct of Physical Count of Inventories (RPCI) for submission to COA as Report on the Physical 
Count of Property, Plant and Equipment (RPCPPE) 

 
Conduct of physical count of inventories for the Property, Plant and Equipment of all the offices of UP Cebu. 
 
Office of Division SPMO 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail COA 
CHECKLIST  OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Memorandum for the Creation of Inventory Committee SPMO 

  FEES TO PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION BE PAID 

Compliance for Physical Conducts inventory and None At least 60 days SPMO Staff and Inventory 
Count of Inventories (RPCI) prepare a Report on the   Committee  
in coordination with the Physical Count of Supply & Property 
Inventory Committee and Inventories (RPCI) and Management Office 
Submits the Report on the Report on the Physical  
Physical Count of Property, Count of Property, Plant and  
Plant and Equipment Equipment (RPCPPE)  

 
(RPCPPE) to COA signed by inventory 

committee and head of 
agency. 

TOTAL None 60 days  
 
 

526



 

7. Issuance of the Abstract of Bid/Quotation 
 
A document which summarizes the Name of the contract and its location, if applicable; Time, date and place of bid opening; and 
names of bidders and their corresponding calculated bid prices arranged from lowest to highest, the amount of Bid Security (if 
applicable) and the name of the issuing entity. 

 
Office of Division SPMO 
Classification Simple  
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail End Users 
CHECKLIST  OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Request for Quotation (RFQ), PR and Post SPMO Staff 
Qualification/Disqualification Report (if needed) 

 AGENCY ACTION FEES TO PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
CLIENT STEP BE PAID 

Requests of Abstract of Tallies all the quotations of the None 3 Days SPMO Staff  
Bids/Quotation suppliers and identifies the Supply & Property 

lowest and most responsive Management Office  
bids. 

 
TOTAL None 3 Days  

 

527



 

 

8. Issuance of BAC Resolution 
  

A resolution signed by the BAC Members and Head of Procuring entity stating the recommendation or approval/disapproval of 
Procurement of Goods and Services 

 
     Office of Division SPMO 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail End-User  
CHECKLIST  OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
PR, RFQ, Abstract of Bids, Post Qualification Report SPMO 

  FEES TO PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION BE PAID 

1. Requests for BAC Resolution 1. Drafts BAC Resolution in None 1 Day SPMO Staff Supply & 
accordance with the IRR Property Management 
of RA 9184. Office 

  

2. Routes to BAC members 1 Day SPMO Staff Supply & 
for review and signature. Property Management 

Office 
  

3. HOPE or authorized 1 Day SPMO Staff Supply & 
person approves and Property Management 
signs it. Office 

  

TOTAL None 3 Days  
 
 
 
 
 

528



 

9. Disposal of PPEs/SEs/Waste Material 
 
The SPMO regularly conducts disposal of PPEs/SEs/Waste Material. 

 
Office of Division SPMO 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail Agency/End-users 
CHECKLIST  OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

IIRUP forms SPMO 
 

  FEES TO PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION BE PAID 

End-users/SPMO initiates the SPMO staff and the Disposal None At least 30 days SPMO Staff  
disposal of unserviceable PPEs Committee conducts the Supply & Property 

regular disposal of Management Office & the 
unserviceable items in the Disposal Committee 
university in adherence to 
the DBM’s Manual on 
Disposal of Government 
Property  

TOTAL None 30 days  
 
 
 

10. Transfer of Property, Plant and Equipment (PPE) and Semi-Expendables (SE) 
 
Property Office process request for the transfer of accountability of particular PPE or SE. 

 
Office of Division SPMO 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail COA 

529



 

CHECKLIST  OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Approved Letter Request SPMO 
PAR / ICS 
 

  FEES TO PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION BE PAID 

 Requests for Transfer of Processes Request for None 7 Days SPMO Staff  
Property, Plant and Equipment Transfer of Property, Plant Supply & Property 
(PPE) and Semi-Expendables and Equipment (PPE) and Management Office 
(SE) Semi-Expendables (SE) 

TOTAL None 7 Days  
 
 
 
 
11. Facilitates inspection of items/equipment after acceptance of delivery 
 

Delivered items/equipment are inspected by the inspection officers and delivered to the end users. 
     
Office of Division SPMO 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail End users 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

DR , Sales Invoice , PO and  PR SPMO 
  FEES TO PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION BE PAID 

530



 

Requests for the inspection of Informs inspection officer of the None 7 Days Inspection Officers 
items/ equipment and availability of delivered goods ITC, CMO, College of 
acceptance of delivery. for inspection and contacts end Science, CCAD  

users for acceptance. 
 

TOTAL None 7 Days  
 

 

 

12. Issuance of Property Acknowledgement Receipt (PAR) 
 
Property office issues a PAR stating the accountable officer of the issued PPE for items Php15,000.00 and above.  

 
Office of Division SPMO 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail COA 
CHECKLIST  OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Purchase Order SPMO 
Sales Invoice 

  FEES TO PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION BE PAID 

Requests of Property Issuances of Property None 3 Days SPMO Staff  
Acknowledgement Receipt Acknowledgement Receipt Supply & Property 
(PAR) (PAR) –for equipment Management Office 

50,000.00 and above 
 

TOTAL None 3 Days  
 

531



 

 

13. Issuance of Inventory Custodian Slip (ICS) 
 
Property office issues a PAR stating the accountable officer of the issued Semi-Expendable properties for items below Php15,000.00.  

 
Office of Division SPMO 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail COA 
CHECKLIST  OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Purchase Order and Sales Invoice SPMO 
  FEES TO PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION BE PAID 
Requisition of Inventory Issuances of Inventory Custodian None 3 Days SPMO Staff  
Custodian Slip  Slip (ICS) for semi-expendable Supply & Property 
(ICS). expenses below 50,000.00 Management Office 

(except disposable supplies) 
TOTAL None 3 Days  

 
 

 
14. Issuance of Requisition Issue Slip (RIS) 

 
A request for issuance of an item/equipment.  

 
Office of Division SPMO 
Classification Simple  
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail End-User  
CHECKLIST  OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

PO and Sales Invoice SPMO 
  FEES TO PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

532



 

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION BE PAID 
Requests for Requisition Prepares RIS and routes it for None 3 Days SPMO Staff  
Issue Slip (RIS) signature. Supply & Property 

Management Office 

TOTAL None 3 Days  
 

15. Routing of delivered items/equipment 
 

Supplier/bidder delivers procured item/equipment to the end user or to SPMO. 
 
Office of Division SPMO 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail End-User 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

IAR and RIS SPMO 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES TO PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID 
Requests for the delivery of Informs end user/ requisitioner None 3 Days SPMO Staff  
items/ equipment that their items are ready for Supply & Property 

pick-up or instructs suppliers to Management Office 
deliver directly to end user 
depending on the type of 
item/equipment. 

TOTAL None 3 Days  
    

533



 

16. Disposal of PPEs/SEs/Waste Material 
 
Property Office regularly conducts disposal of PPEs/SEs/Waste Material. 

 
Office of Division SPMO 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2G – Government to Government 
Who may avail Agency/End-users 
CHECKLIST  OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

IIRUP forms SPMO 
 

  FEES TO PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION BE PAID 

End-users/SPMO initiates the SPMO staff and the Disposal None At least 30 days SPMO Staff  
disposal of unserviceable PPEs Committee conducts the Supply & Property 

regular disposal of Management Office & the 
unserviceable items in the Disposal Committee 
university in adherence to 
the DBM’s Manual on 
Disposal of Government 
Property  

TOTAL None 30 days  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

534



 

 
FEEDBACK AND COMPLAINTS MECHANISM 

 
How to send feedback You may file feedbacks/complaints with our office using the feedback form at 

the SPMO or directly email the office at spmo.upcebu@up.edu.ph.  
How feedbacks are processed The office receives the feedback and sorts. For suggestions, the office 

investigates proactive solutions or reevaluation of protocols. 
1. Reevaluation of process 
2. Corrective action 
3. Organizational improvement 

How to file a complaint You may file feedback/complaints with our office feedback form at the SPMO 
or directly email the office at spmo.upcebu@up.edu.ph attaching the signed 
formal complaint. 

How complaints are processed The office receives the complaint and directs the processing to proper 
authority. 
For suggestive complaints, the office will look for proactive methods and will 
assess the validity of the complaint. 
For formal complaints, the office shall do the following: 

a. Complaint processing 
b. Complaint investigation 
c. Corrective action 
d. Complaint resolution 
e. Organizational improvement 

Contact Information of Pahinungód/Oblation Corps The number is at: 
(032) 232 8187 (loc 325) 
 
Email at: 
spmo.upcebu@up.edu.ph 

 

 
 
 
 

535



 

 
 

 
 

VIII. LIST OF OFFICES 
 

Office Address Contact Information 
(032) 231 3086 

Office of the Chancellor 1F Administration Building (032) 232 8185 
(032) 233 8203 local 103 

Technology Transfer and Business Development 
3F Arts and Sciences Building 208 

Office 
Legal Office 2F Administration Building 125 
Public Information Office 2F TIC Building, Flip Facility 313 
Budget Office 1F Administration Building 122 
Ugnayan ng Pahinungód Office 2F Arts and Sciences Building 212 
Office of the Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs 1F Administration Building 124 
Office of International Linkages 2F Arts and Sciences Building 211 
Office of the University Registrar 1F Administration Building 120 
Office of Student Affairs 2F Administration Building 115 
University Library 1F Performing Arts Hall 117 
Central Visayas Studies Center 2F Arts and Sciences Building 209 
Office of Continuing Education and Padayon 2F Arts and Sciences Building 212 
Gender and Development 2F Arts and Sciences Building 211 
Teaching Learning Resource Center 1F Undergrad Building 110 
National Service Training Program 3F Arts and Sciences Building 204 
Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administration 1F Administration Building 123 
Accounting Office 1F Administration Building 104 
Cash Office 1F Administration Building 101 
Campus Maintenance Office 2F TIC Building 306 
Health Services Unit 1F TIC Building 305 

536



 

Human Resource Development Office 2F Administration Building 119 
Information Technology Center 3F Arts and Sciences Building 202 
Office of the Campus Architect 2F Administration Building 127 
Safety and Security Unit 2F TIC Building 312 
Supply Property Management Office 1F Administration Building 121 
College of Communication, Art, and Design 2F Undergrad Building 315 
College of Science 1F Arts and Sciences Building 311 
College of Social Sciences 1F Arts and Sciences Building 203 
College of Social Science (Masters of Education 

1F Arts and Sciences Building 203 
Program) 
College of Social Sciences (High School Program) 1F High School Building 301 
School of Management School of Management Building 304 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

537



 

 

COLLEGE OF COMMUNICATION, ART, AND DESIGN (CCAD) 

EXTERNAL SERVICES 
 

1. APPLICATION TO THE FINE ARTS PROGRAM (Certificate Program) 
Application process to the Fine Arts Program (Certificate Program) 

 
Office or Division CCAD 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail High School Graduates 

Tertiary and Higher Degree Holders 
Special Students for Non-Credit Intake 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Application Form  CCAD Office Administrative Staff 
 Form 137 (High School Report card) for High School  High School Principal 

Graduates  
 Form 137 – A (High School Transcript of Records) for  High School Principal 

Senior High Graduates  
 College Diploma and Transcript of Records for Higher  University where the applicant graduated 

Education Graduates  
 Letter of Intent for Special Students (Non-Credit Intake) 
 Folio of Artworks (to be presented after the applicant  Applicant 

passes the written and arts examinations)  Applicant 
FEES TO BE PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
PAID TIME 

1. Fills out application form 1. Office Staff accepts form None 3 Working Days Office Staff 
  Communication, Art, and 

2. Submits Forms 137 and 2. Program Coordinator Design 
137-A evaluates credentials and  

endorses for Talent Program Coordinator 

 527 

538



 

3. for Senior High School Determination Test (TDT)   Communication, Art, and 
Graduates  Design 

 3. Office Staff informs applicant  
4. Submits College Diploma through telephone and e-mail Dean 

and Transcript of Records of the schedule for the TDT Communication, Art, and 
for Higher Education  Design 
Degree Holders 4. During the TDT, applicants 

 bring drawing materials 
5. Submits Letter of Intent for (pencil, pen, etc.) and folio of 

Special Students (Non- artworks 
Credit Intake) 

TOTAL None 3 Working Days  
 

 528 

539



 

 

2. REQUESTS AT THE FABRICATION LABORATORY (FABLAB) 
Process for FabLab requests (materials, equipment, rooms, etc.) 

 
Office of Division CCAD - Fablab 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government of Citizen 
Who may avail General Public 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Materials to be used Personal 

FEES TO BE 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID 
1. Sends request through 1. Acknowledges receipt of   Fablab Staff 

office staff the request Varies  Communication, Art, and 
  depending on 20 Working Days Design 
2. Provides materials to be used 2. Production of work project  

for project  specifications FabLab Manager 
 3. Issues Billing Communication, Art, and 
3. Returns to the lab when work Statement Design 

is completed  
 Cash Office Staff 
4. Pays FEES TO BE PAID to Cash Office 

the cashier 
 
5. Collects finished project 

TOTAL Varies 20 Working Days  
depending on 

project 
specifications 

 529 

540



 

 

3. REQUESTS FOR USE OF JOSE JOYA GALLERY 
Process of requesting for use of the Jose Joya Gallery  

 
Office of Division CCAD – Jose Joya Gallery 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government of Citizen 
Who may avail General Public 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Request form  Campus Maintenance Office (CMO) 

FEES TO BE 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID 
1. Sends request through Jose 1. Gallery team   Joya Gallery Team 

Joya Gallery team acknowledges receipt of Varies  Communication, Art, and 
 the request and checks depending on 3 Working Days Design 
2. Fills out request form availability of the gallery. request/  

countersigned by CMO  exhibit  Coordinator  
janitor to ensure clean up 2. Coordinator specifications Jose Joya Gallery 
after the activity and submit non/endorses the  
it to College office request. Dean Dean  
 approves/disapproves. Communication, Art, and 

3. Provides materials to be used  Design 
for project 3. Preparation of the  

 gallery Cash Office Staff 

4. Pays for use of facilities at  Cash Office 

the Cashier’s Office  4. Issues Billing 
Statement 

TOTAL Varies 3 Working Days  
depending on 

request/ 
exhibit 

specifications 

 529 

541



 

4. REQUEST FOR USE OF LAWAK SINEHAN 
Process of requesting for use of Lawak Sinehan  

 
Office or Division CCAD – Lawak Sinehan 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail General Public 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Request form  Campus Maintenance Office (CMO) 

PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID 

TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Writes a request letter or fills out 1.  Office staff or the Lawak Hourly rates for 1 Day Office Staff 

online reservation form to use Sinehan Coordinator Lawak Sinehan Communication, Art, and 
Lawak Sinehan  accepts the form and space and Design 

 checks availability of the equipment  
2. Fills out out request form facility.  Coordinator  

countersigned by CMO janitor to   Lawak Sinehan 
ensure clean up after the 2. Lawak Sinehan  
activity and submit it to College Coordinator non/endorses Dean 
office the request. Dean Communication, Art, and 

 approves or disapproves Design 
3. Pays for use of the request.   

facilities/services at the  Cash Office Staff 
Cashier’s Office 3. Cashier receives payment Cash Office 

and issues an official 
receipt 

TOTAL  1 Day  

 530 

542



 

  5. REQUEST FOR USE OF SUNSET GARDEN 
Process of requesting for use of the Sunset Garden  

 
Office or Division College of Communication, Art, and Design 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail General Public 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Request form  Campus Maintenance Office (CMO) 

PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID 

TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Writes a request letter or fills out 1. Office staff accepts the Hourly rates for use 1 Day Office Staff 

online reservation form to use form and checks of the Sunset Garden  Communication, Art, and 
the Sunset Garden  availability of the facility.  Design 

    
2. Fills out request form 2. Dean approves or Coordinator  

countersigned by CMO janitor to disapproves the request.  Lawak Sinehan 
ensure clean up after the   
activity and submit it to College 3. Cashier receives payment Dean 
office and issues an official Communication, Art, and 

 receipt Design 

3. Pays for use of  

facilities/services at the Cash Office Staff 

Cashier’s Office Cash Office 

TOTAL  1 Day  

 531 

543



 

 
 

   6. SUGGESTIONS FROM OTHER STAKEHOLDERS 
Process of handling suggestions from stakeholders 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Non-student clients 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 College Staff 

PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

TIME 
1. Stakeholder send 1. Staff acknowledges None 3 Working Days Office Staff 

suggestions through           receipt of e-mail within 3 Communication, Art, and 
e-mail. days. Design 

   
2. Concerned party replies 2. Staff forwards the e-mail Program Coordinators 

through the college e- to the concerned party. Communication, Art, and 
mail within 3 days.  Design 

3. Staff replies to the e-mail  
with the response of the Dean 
concerned party within the Communication, Art, and 
day. Design 

TOTAL None 3 Working Days  

 532 

544



 

 

INTERNAL SERVICES 

GENERAL SERVICES (STUDENTS) 
 

1. CONSULTATION SERVICES 
Process for setting consultations with faculty 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Student 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Request for Appointment Student 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
PAID TIME 

1. Student requests for an 1. Approval by faculty None 1 Day Office Staff 
appointment with faculty Communication, Art, and 
member Design 

 
Faculty 

Communication, Art, and 
Design 

TOTAL None 1 Day  

 533 

545



 

 

2. REQUEST FOR AUTHENTICATION OF DOCUMENTS/ CERTIFICATES 
Process wherein a requestor asks for his/her documents to be authenticated by the College 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Students and Alumni 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

 Request for letter of authentication  Student or alumnus/alumna 
FEES TO BE PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
PAID TIME 

1. Submits request for letter 1. Staff accepts the request None 2 Working Days Office Staff 
of authentication  Communication, Art, and 

2.  Staff drafts, reviews, and Design 
countersigns the letter of  
authentication OCS Staff 

 Office of the College 
3. College Secretary/Dean signs Secretary 

 
Dean 

Communication, Art, and 
Design 

TOTAL None 2 Working Days  

 534 

546



 

 

3. REQUEST FOR USE OF CLASSROOMS/FACILITIES (beyond class hours) 
Process of requesting use of classroom/facilities after class hours 

 
Office or Division College of Communication, Art, and Design 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Request form  Campus Maintenance Office (CMO) 

PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID 

TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Writes a request letter to use 1.  Faculty non/endorses the None, if the activity 1 Day Office Staff 

CCAD classroom/facility request.  is academic Communication, Art, and 
   Design 
2. Fills out request form 2. Staff receives the request For non-academic  

countersigned by CMO janitor to letter and the form and activities, P50/hour Faculty 
ensure clean up after the checks availability of the for the use of one air  Communication, Art, 
activity and submit it to College classroom/facility.  conditioner unit and Design 
office    

 3. Dean approves or Hourly pay for Dean 
3. Pays for use of facilities at the disapproves janitorial services if  Communication, Art, 

Cashier’s Office if activity is non-  activity is held and Design 
academic 4. Cashier receives payment outside  

and issues an official their working hours  

receipt Cash Office Staff 
Cash Office 

TOTAL  1 Day  

 535 

547



 

 

4. REQUEST FOR USE OF LAWAK SINEHAN (beyond class hours) 
Process of requesting use of Lawak Sinehan after class hours 

 
Office or Division CCAD – Lawak Sinehan 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty, students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Request form  Campus Maintenance Office (CMO) 

PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID 

TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Writes a request letter or fills out 1. Staff or the Lawak Sinehan None, if the activity 1 Day Office Staff 

online reservation form to use Coordinator receives the is academic Communication, Art, and 
Lawak Sinehan  form and checks  Design 

 availability of the facility. Hourly rate of Lawak  
2. Fills out request form  Sinehan facilities fee Coordinator  

countersigned by CMO janitor to 2. Lawak Sinehan for non-academic Lawak Sinehan 
ensure clean up after the Coordinator activities  
activity and submit it to College non/endorses the  Dean 
office request. Dean approves Hourly pay for Communication, Art, and 

 or disapproves the janitorial services Design 
3. Pays for use of request.  beyond working  

facilities/services at the  hours Cash Office Staff 
Cashier’s Office if activity is non- 3. Cashier receives payment Cash Office 
academic and issues an official 

receipt 
TOTAL  1 Day  

 536 

548



 

  5. REQUESTS FOR USE OF JOSE JOYA GALLERY 
Process of requesting for use of the Jose Joya Gallery  

 
Office of Division CCAD – Jose Joya Gallery 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government of Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty, students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Request form  Campus Maintenance Office (CMO) 

FEES TO BE 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID 
5. Sends request through Jose 5. Gallery team None, if the  Joya Gallery Team 

Joya Gallery team acknowledges receipt of activity is  Communication, Art, and 
 the request and checks academic 3 Working Days Design 
6. Fills out request form availability of the gallery.   

countersigned by CMO  If non- Coordinator  
janitor to ensure clean up 6. Coordinator academic, Jose Joya Gallery 
after the activity and submit non/endorses the varies  
it to College office request. Dean depending on Dean  
 approves/disapproves. request/ Communication, Art, and 

7. Provides materials to be used  exhibit  Design 
for project 7. Preparation of the specifications  

 gallery Cash Office Staff 

8. Pays for use of facilities at  Cash Office 

the Cashier’s Office  8. Issues Billing 
Statement 

TOTAL  3 Working Days  

 
 
 
 

 537 

549



 

 6. REQUEST FOR USE OF SUNSET GARDEN (beyond class hours) 
Process of requesting use of Sunset Garden after class hours 

 
Office or Division College of Communication, Art, and Design 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty, students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Request form  Campus Maintenance Office (CMO) 

PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID 

TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Writes a request letter or fills out 1.  Staff accepts the None, if the activity 1 Day Office Staff 

online reservation form to use letter/form and checks for is academic Communication, Art, and 
Sunset Garden availability of the facility.  Design 

  Rental fee for non-  
2. Fills out request form 2. Dean approves or academic activities Dean 

countersigned by CMO janitor to disapproves the request.   Communication, Art, and 
ensure clean up after the  Hourly pay for Design 
activity and submit it to College 3. Cashier receives payment janitorial services  
office and issues an official beyond working  Cash Office Staff 

 receipt hours Cash Office 
3. Pays for use of 

facilities/services at the 
Cashier’s Office if activity is non-
academic 

TOTAL  1 Day  

 538 

550



 

 

  7. SUGGESTIONS FROM STUDENTS 
Process of handling suggestions from students 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Students 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Suggestion Form College Staffer 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. The student fills out suggestion 1. Admin. Staff None 3 Working Days Office Staff 

form (2 copies) acknowledges receipt of Communication, Art, and 
the form and gives one Design 
copy to the student and  
one copy to the College Dean 
Secretary Communication, Art, and 

 Design 
2. College Secretary / Dean 

responds to the 
suggestion 

TOTAL None 3 Working Days  

 539 

551



 

 

SERVICES FOR FACULTY MEMBERS, STAFFERS, AND STUDENTS 
 

1. REQUEST FOR TRAVEL ORDER 
Travel Order Application process 

 
Office or Division All colleges 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty, staff, and student 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Letter to the Chancellor  Client 
 Online request via UIS  UP Website 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Writes a request for 1. College Academic Personnel Committee, None 3 Working  Client, Office Staffs 

travel order to the Department Chair (if applicable), Dean, Days  For endorsements and 
Chancellor, through and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs UIS approvals: 
channels stating endorses letters from faculty members. Department Chair, Dean, 
reason for as well as Dean and Vice Chancellor for Vice Chancellor for 
dates and destination Administration endorse letters from Academic Affairs for 
of travel administrative staffs. Faculty Adviser, faculty, Vice Chancellor 

 Dean, Office of Student Affairs and Vice for Administration for 
2. Requests for a travel Chancellor for Academic Affairs endorse administrative staff, Office 

order through the UIS requests from students. of Student Affairs and 
website  Vice Chancellor for 

2. Concerned officials and Chancellor Academic Affairs for 
approves requests in UIS students 

  Office of the Chancellor 
3. Office of the Chancellor generates and 

releases the travel order 
TOTAL None 3 Working  

Days 

 540 

552



 

 

2. APPLICATION FOR LOCAL TRAVEL 
Local Travel Order Application process 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 UIS  up.edu.ph UIS account 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Fills up UIS 1. Through Channels None 2 Working Days Department Chair 
2. Prints approved UIS generated Communication, Art, and Design 

application  
Dean 

Communication, Art, and Design 
 

Vice Chancellor for Academic 
Affairs 

Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
Academic Affairs 

 
Chancellor 

Office of the Chancellor 
TOTAL None 2 Working Days  

 541 

553



 

 

3. APPLICATION FOR RESEARCH LOAD CREDIT 
Research Load Credit (RLC) Application process for academic personnel 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty members 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Letter  Faculty Member 
 Research Proposal 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Writes letter to the 1. College Academic Personnel None 15 Working Days For 3-unit proposals: 

Chancellor, through Committee screens the proposal   Department Chair / 
channels, three months and recommends its endorsement Program Coordinator (if 
prior to the semester of or non-endorsement by the applicable) 
effectivity Department Chair/ Program  CAPC 

 Coordinator and Dean.  Dean 
2. Submits certification of   

funding (if applicable) 2. Staff receives the letter and For proposals worth more than 
forwards to the Central Visayas 3 units. 
Studies Center for endorsement.  

  CVSC 
3. The Dean acts on a 3-unit  VCAA (through AcPFC) 

proposal  Chancellor 
 

4. The Chancellor acts on a proposal 
of more than 3 units 

TOTAL None 15 Working Days  

 542 

554



 

 

4. APPLICATION FOR LEAVE 
Leave application process for academic personnel 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty members, staffers 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Letter of Application for Leave College Staffer 
 Leave form 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 

1. Faculty member/staff fills 1. Department Chair/ Program None 1 Day Office Staff 
out the form Coordinator recommends Communication, Art, and 

approval Design 
  
2. Dean approves the request. Department Chair or 

Program Coordinator 
Communication, Art, and 

Design 
 

Dean 
Communication, Art, and 

Design 

TOTAL None 1 Day  

 543 

555



 

 

5. APPLICATION FOR LEAVE WITHOUT PAY 
Leave without pay application for academic personnel 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Letter of Application for leave Faculty member, College Staffer 
 Leave form 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Writes a letter to the 1. Department Chair / Program None 5 Working Office Staff 

Chancellor, through Coordinator recommends Days Communication, Art, and Design 
channels three months approval  
before the semester of  Department Chair or 
effectivity. 2. Dean recommends approval. Program Coordinator 

  Communication, Art, and Design 
2. Fills out leave form 3. Vice Chancellor for Academic  

Affairs recommends approval. Dean 
 Communication, Art, and Design 

4. Chancellor approves request.  
Vice Chancellor for Academic 

Affairs 
Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

Academic Affairs 
 

Chancellor 
Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 5 Working  
Days 

 544 

556



 

 

6. APPLICATION FOR STUDY LEAVE 
Study Leave application process for academic personnel 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government of Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty members 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Letter of Request, Applicant, College Administrative Staffer 
 Leave Form, 
 Faculty Development Plan, 
 Notice of acceptance by concerned school 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Faculty writes letter to 1. College Academic Personnel None 20 Working Office Staff 

the Chancellor, Committee screens the proposal and Days Communication, Art, and 
through channels one recommends its endorsement or non- Design 
semester before the endorsement by the Department Chair/  
affected semester Program Coordinator and Dean. Department Chair or 

  Program Coordinator 
2. Faculty member fills 2. CAPC submits documents to AcPFC Communication, Art, and 

out the leave form Design 
 3. AcPFC reviews and recommends action    

on request to the Chancellor Dean 
 Communication, Art, and 

4. Chancellor reviews and acts on the Design 
request 

    Vice Chancellor for Academic 
Affairs 

Office of the Vice Chancellor 
for Academic Affairs 

 545 

557



 

    Chancellor 
Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 20 Working  
Days 

 

 546 

558



 

 

7. APPLICATION FOR FACULTY GRANT 
Grant Application process for faculty 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government of Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty members 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Faculty Grant Form College Administrative Staffer 

FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

BE PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Waits for the call for 1.  CAPC reviews documents for None 20 Working Office Staff 

applications for faculty grant endorsement to AcPFC Days Communication, Art, 
  and Design 
2. Submits form with supporting 2.  AcPFC reviews applications and  

documents to the CAPC ranks applicants for endorsement CAPC 
 
3.  Chancellor reviews and approves AcPFC 

request 
Chancellor 

Office of the 
Chancellor 

TOTAL None 20 Working  
Days 

 547 

559



 

 

8. APPLICATION FOR RESEARCH GRANT 
Application for faculty to apply for a research grant through the Central Visayas Studies Center (CVSC) 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government of Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty members 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Letter of Application Applicant 
 Research Grant Form College Administrative Staffer 

FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

BE PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Waits for the call for 1. Dean endorses the form None 20 Working Days Office Staff 

proposals for research  Communication, Art, 
grant 2. CVSC submits proposal for peer review and Design 

   
2. Writes a letter and attach 3. CVSC returns proposal to faculty for Dean 

research proposal using revisions Communication, Art, 
the CVSC template  and Design 

 4. CVSC endorses revised proposal to VCAA  
3. Submits to the Dean for  CVSC 

endorsement 5. VCAA endorses proposal for approval by  
 Chancellor Vice Chancellor for 
4. Responds to the  Academic Affairs 

reviewer’s comments and 6. CVSC processes the research contract and Office of the Vice 
submit revised proposal returns it to the faculty for signing Chancellor for 
to CVSC  Academic Affairs 

7. OVCAA staff prepares the DV, OBR with the  
signed contract for fund release Chancellor 

Office of the 
Chancellor 

TOTAL None 20 Working Days  

 548 

560



 

 

9. APPLICATION FOR AUTHORITY TO TRAVEL ABROAD 
Application process for UP employees to apply for authority to travel abroad 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty members and staffers 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Request letter addressed to the  Client, up.edu.ph UIS account 

Chancellor, through channels 
 UIS request for international travel order 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Writes a letter to the Chancellor 1.  Department Chair/ Program None 2 Working Days Department Chair or 

through channels. Indicate your Coordinator acts and/or endorses Program Coordinator 
plan for compensating for work letter request. Communication, Art, and 
that will be affected.  Design 

 2. Dean and VCAA endorse the letter.  
2. Fills out UIS: international travel  Dean 

3.  Office of the Chancellor issues the Communication, Art, and 
Authority to Travel Abroad Design 

 
Vice Chancellor for 
Academic Affairs 
Office of the Vice 

Chancellor for Academic 
Affairs 

 
Chancellor 

Office of the Chancellor 
TOTAL None 2 Working Days  

 549 

561



 

 

10. REQUEST TO HIRE NEW FACULTY 
Process of hiring new faculty/lecturer for the college. 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Letter of Request, faculty Loading for the entire Academic Year  Department/ Program 
  Basic Papers (justification for hiring, CV of the applicant, hiring  Applicant 

criteria, medical certificate, psychological test result) 
FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 
BE PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Department Chair/ Program 1.  Submits to HRDO for AcPFC None 10 Working Days Department Chair or 
Coordinator or Dean writes a review and endorsement  Program Coordinator or 
letter endorsed by CAPC to the   Dean 
Chancellor through channels   Communication, Art, and 
one semester in advance with   Design 
applicant’s Basic Papers  
attached to the request 2.  Submits endorsed request 10 Working Days CAPC 

with supporting documents for 
Chancellor’s approval AcPFC 

HRDO 

Chancellor 
Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 20 Working Days  

 550 

562



 

 

11. REQUEST FOR AUTHORITY TO HIRE 
The college requests permission to hire academic personnel 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Department Chair/Program Coordinator 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

 Letter of Request Department/Program Office 
 Academic Loading 

FEES TO BE PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME 

PAID RESPONSIBLE 
1. Writes a letter to the 1.  CAPC endorses the request and None 10 Working Days Department Chair or 

Chancellor through forwards the letter with attachments  Program Coordinator 
channels requesting to HRDO for AcPFC review and  Communication, Art, 
for authority to hire a endorsement  and Design 
new faculty member   
three months before 2.  AcPFC forwards the request to the 10 Working Days HRDO 
the start of the Chancellor for approval. 
semester AcPFC 

 
2. Attaches the academic Chancellor 

loading for the entire Office of the 
school year or for the Chancellor 
remaining semester 

TOTAL None 20 Working Days  

 551 

563



 

 

12. REQUEST FOR UP CEBU RESEARCH DISSEMINATION GRANT AND RELEASE OF RDG GRANT 
Process of requesting and releasing of Research Dissemination Grant (RDG) from UP Cebu 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty Members 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Letter to the Chancellor through channels http://cvsc.upcebu.edu.ph/index.php/downloadable-forms/ 
 Application Form (UP-Cebu-RDG-Forms-1-2-final-2) 
 Attachments: information about the conference, and paper to be 

presented. 
FEES TO PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
BE PAID TIME 

1. Writes a letter to the 1.  Endorsement by the Department Chair None 15 Working Days Applicant 
Chancellor through (if applicable), Dean, CVSC Director, 
channels requesting for VCAA. CVSC 
grant 2. Approval of the Chancellor 

2. Fills out UP Cebu RDG 3.  Once approved, staff prepares the Vice Chancellor for 
form Disbursement Voucher (DV) and Academic Affairs 

3. Attaches supporting Obligation Request (OBR) Office of the Vice Chancellor 
documents 4.  Dean endorses the release of for Academic Affairs 

4. Once approved, follow up payment, OVCAA recommends and  
on the release of RDG Chancellor approves Chancellor 

5.  Staff inputs data in UIS. Cashier Office of the Chancellor 
prepares & releases the check once 
signed Budget 

Accounting 
 

Cash Office 
TOTAL None 15 Working Days  

 552 

564



 

 

13. RENEWAL OF FACULTY APPOINTMENT 
Process of Renewal of a faculty's appointment for the next academic term/s 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Program Coordinator/Department Chair 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Letter Request Personal, Department/Program Office 
 SET 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Writes a letter to the Chancellor 1. CAPC endorses the None 10 Working Department Chair or 

through Channels two months request and forward the Days Program Coordinator or Dean 
before the semester starts letter and the  Communication, Art, and Design 

 attachments to HRDO for   
2. Attaches the following documents: AcPFC review and  Dean 

justification with CAPC endorsement.  Communication, Art, and Design 
endorsement, recent SET of faculty,   
faculty loading for the next school 2. AcPFC forwards the CAPC 
year request to the Chancellor 10 Working 

for approval. Days HRDO 

    
AcPFC 

    
Vice Chancellor for Academic 

Affairs 
Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

Academic Affairs 

    
Chancellor 

Office of the Chancellor 

 553 

565



 

TOTAL None 20 Working  
Days 

 

 554 

566



 

 

14. REQUEST FOR UP SYSTEM RESEARCH DISSEMINATION GRANTS/INTERNATIONAL PUBLICATION 
AWARD 
Process of requesting and releasing of Research Dissemination Grant (RDG) from UP System 

 
Office or Division All colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty members 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Application Form  https://ovpaa.up.edu.ph/ 
 Attachments 

  FEES  
PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION TO BE PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
TIME 

PAID 
1. Download forms from 1.  Checks all forms need to be None 45 Working Applicant 

https://ovpaa.up.edu.ph/ endorsed by the Department Days  
 Chair/ Program Coordinator, CVSC 
2. Attaches supporting documents Dean, CVSC Director, VCAA. 

    Vice Chancellor for Academic 
3. Checks ovpaa.up.edu.ph for the 2.  OVPAA (through Affairs 

submission dates for the RDG. rdg.ovpaa@up.edu.ph or Office of the Vice Chancellor 
 ipa.ovpaa@up.edu.ph ) informs for Academic Affairs 
4. Sends thru e-mail scanned applicant by email if application  

copies of the endorsed is approved.  
application forms and  
attachments to 3.  Once approved, OVPAA sends Office of the Vice President for 
rdg.ovpaa@up.edu.ph for the an email to the applicant for the Academic Affairs 
RDG and ipa.ovpaa@up.edu.ph release of the grant/award. 
for the IPA 

 4. Staff prepares the    
5. Mails to UP (OVPAA) the Disbursement Voucher (DV) 

printed form (with endorsements and Obligation Request and 

 555 

567



 

and attachments Status (OBR)    
  Dean 
6. Forwards the e-mail from 5. Dean endorses, OVCAA Communication, Art, and 

OVPAA to the office staff to recommends and Chancellor Design 
prepare for the release of the approves the release of  
grant/award. payment Chancellor 

 Office of the Chancellor 
6. Staff inputs data in UIS.  

  
7. Cashier prepares and releases Cash Office Staff 

the check once signed Cash Office 

TOTAL None 45 Working  
Days 

 

 556 

568



 

 

15. APPLICATION FOR FACULTY CLEARANCE 
Clearance process for Academic Personnel 

 
Office or Division All colleges 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty members and staffers 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Clearance Form  HRDO 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Fills out clearance form and 1.  Program Adviser, College None 3 Working Days Academic and 

have it signed by concerned Secretary, and Dean signs Administrative Heads 
academic and administrative  
heads 2. Administrative Heads signs 

TOTAL None 3 Working Days  

 557 

569



 

 

16. APPLICATION FOR FELLOWSHIP GRANT 
Fellowship grant application process for academic personnel 

 
Office or Division All colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty members, REPS, and Administrative Staffers 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Application form https://ovpaa.up.edu.ph/ovpaa-administered-programs/ 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Fills up form 1. Submits to Dean, VCAA None 20 Working Days Academic and 

OVPAA FRASDP Form 11.1 and Chancellor for Administrative Heads 
Masteral fellowship or OVPAA endorsement 
FRASDP Form 11.2 Doctoral 
Fellowship 

TOTAL None 20 Working Days  

 558 

570



 

 

17. APPLICATION FOR PLANTILLA ITEM 
Plantilla Item application process for academic personnel 

 
Office or Division All colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty members, REPS, and Admin Staffers 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Letter of request Applicant 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Waits for call for filling up of 1. CAPC reviews documents and None 20 Working Days Department Chair or 

items. ranks applicants Program Coordinator 
  Communication, Art, 
2. Submits document on  and Design 

accomplishments/   
performance to the CAPC  Dean 
for evaluation and ranking  Communication, Art, 

and Design 
  

2. CAPC endorses the assignment of CAPC 
plantilla item to the Chancellor 

 AcPFC 
 

3. Chancellor reviews and acts on the Chancellor 
request Office oft he Chancellor 

TOTAL None 20 Working Days  

 559 

571



 

 

18. APPLICATION FOR TENURE 
Tenure application process for academic personnel 

 
Office or Division All colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty members 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Letter of application for tenure  Office Staffer 
 Evaluation Form  Faculty members 
 Supporting documents (publication, SET, etc) 

FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

BE PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Submits a letter of 1. Dean sends letter, together with tenure None 45 Working Days Applicant 

application for evaluation form and supporting documents  
tenure to the Dean to the CAPC for evaluation. CAPC 
of the College 

 2. If all papers are complete, CAPC endorses   Tenured Faculty 
2. Attaches supporting the application for evaluation by the tenured Communication, Art, and 

documents. faculty members of the college. Design 

   
3. Dean convenes tenured faculty members to Dean 

evaluate the application and attachments. Communication, Art, and 
Design 

 4. Tenured faculty members act on the    
application, tenure evaluation form, and HRDO 
other supporting documents. 

    AcPFC 
 5. Dean sends recommendation of tenured    

faculty members, together with all Chancellor 
supporting documents, to HRDO for AcPFC Office of the Chancellor 
evaluation and endorsement. Cover letter 

 560 

572



 

 shall be made indicating the decision of the   Board of Regents 
majority on the tenure application. 

 
6. AcPFC reviews recommendation in (5) and 

acts on the recommendation. 
 
7. AcPFC sends recommendation to the 

Chancellor for final action on the application 
for tenure. 

 
8. Chancellor acts on the recommendation. 

 
9. Sends application of the recommended 

applicant to the Board of Regents (BOR) for 
approval. 

TOTAL None 45 Working Days  
 

 561 

573



 

 

19. APPLICATION FOR SUPPLIES 
To request for supplies for office use 

 
Office or Division All colleges 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty members, REPS, and Administrative Staffers 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

 Purchase Requisition form UIS 
 Obligation Request form  
 Line Item Budget (if API) UIS 
 Project Procurement Management Plan (PPMP) 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Fills out Purchase 1. Budget Officer checks availability None 7 Working Days Office Staff 

Requisition (PR)and of funds to purchase the requested Communication, Art, and 
Obligation Request (OBR) items and endorses OBR to VCA Design 
forms to be signed by the or Chancellor for approval  
Dean  Dean 

 2. VCA or Chancellor approves Communication, Art, and 
 request Design 

  
2. Submits PR and OBR with 3. Submits approved PR with Budget Office 

Line Item Budget (LIB) and attached documents to the Bids  
Project Procurement and Awards Committee (BAC) Vice Chancellor for Academic 
Management Plan (PPMP) office for mode of procurement Affairs 
to Budget Office  Office of the Vice Chancellor 

4. Supply and Property Management for Academic Affairs 
Office (SPMO) facilitates or 
procurement Chancellor 

Office of the Chancellor 

 562 

574



 

    BAC Chair 
 

SPMO 
TOTAL None 7 Working Days  

 

20. REQUEST FOR OFFICIAL TIME 
Current faculty's request for an official time from the Chancellor 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty members 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Letter to the Chancellor  Applicant 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Submits a letter to the 1.  Endorsements of the None 3 Working Days Applicant 

Chancellor through Dean, VCAA, and  
channels, indicating if Chancellor Dean 
applicable a plan to Communication, Art, and Design 
compensate for missed  
classes and administrative Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs 
work. Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

 Academic Affairs 
2. Fills out UIS for travel order,  

if applicable Chancellor 
Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 3 Working Days  

 563 

575



 

 

21. PROCESSING OF CASH ADVANCE (CA) REIMBURSEMENT, OR LIQUIDATION 
Cash Advance / Reimbursement / Liquidation processes 

 
Office or Division All colleges 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty members 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Travel Order  Applicant 
 Approved letter of funding 
 Itinerary of the travel, Airline ticket, boarding passes, Certificate of 

Appearance, and other documentary requirements 
 DV, OBR 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
FOR CA: 1. Staff prepares DV and OBR. None 7 Working Days Applicant 
1. Submits travel order, itinerary   

of travel, airline tickets, and 2. Dean signs documents Dean 
other documentary  Communication, Art, and 
requirements. 3. Staff inputs request in the UIS Design 

 website  
FOR Reimbursement/Liquidation:  Cash Office 
1. Submits travel order, itinerary 4. Staff submits the signed DV to  

of travel, airline ticket, Budget Office, Accounting, and Vice Chancellor for 
boarding pass, certificate of then OVCA Administration 
appearance, photos, and other  Office of the Vice 
documentary requirements 5. If papers are complete, Cash Chancellor for 

Office staff prepares and Administration 
releases the signed check  

Chancellor 
Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 7 Working Days  

 564 

576



 

 

22. APPLICATION FOR MERIT PROMOTION 
Merit Promotion process for academic personnel 

 
Office or Division All colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty members 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Letter addressed to the UP President  Applicant 
 Promotion instrument 
 Supporting documents 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Submits a letter of application 1. CAPC reviews and evaluates None 45 Working Days Applicant 

for promotion application and endorses it to  
 HRDO for AcPFC review. CAPC 
2. Assigns points to your entries   

in the promotion instrument 2. AcPFC reviews, evaluates, Dean 
3. Prepare two sets of and makes recommendation Communication, Art, and 

supporting documents on the application Design 
   
4. If crossing ranks, prepares 3. Chancellor acts on the AcPFC 

corresponding justification application  
 Chancellor 

4. Chancellor forwards Office of the Chancellor 
application to BOR if client is  
crossing rank to Associate or Board of Regents 
Full Professor 

TOTAL None 45 Working Days  

 565 

577



 

 

23. APPLICATION FOR AUTOMATIC PROMOTION 
Merit Promotion process for academic personnel 

 
Office or Division All colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty members 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Letter to the Chancellor through channels  Applicant 
 Proof of completion of MA/MS/Doctoral/PhD degree 
 Publications and proofs of equivalent and other accomplishments if 

request is for automatic promotion with merit 
FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Submits a letter of application 1. CAPC reviews and evaluates None 20 Working Applicant 
for promotion together with application. Days  
supporting documents  CAPC 

2. CAPC submits endorsed application to  
AcPFC. Dean 

 Communication, 
3. AcPFC reviews, evaluates, and Art, and Design 

recommends action on the application to  
the Chancellor. AcPFC 

  
4. Chancellor reviews and acts on the Chancellor 

recommendation. Office of the 
Chancellor 

TOTAL None 20 Working  
Days 

 566 

578



 

 

24. REQUEST FOR PERMISSION FOR LIMITED PRACTICE OF PROFESSION (LPP) 
Current faculty's request for permission for limited practice of his/her profession. 

 
Office or Division All colleges 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty members 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 LPP form  UIS 

FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

BE PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Fills out LPP form on UIS 1. Dean endorses None 3 Working Days Applicant 

  
2. VCAA recommends Dean 

 Communication, Art, 
3. Chancellor approves or disapproves and Design 

 
Chancellor 

Office of the 
Chancellor 

TOTAL None 3 Working Days  

 567 

579



 

 

SERVICES FOR OTHER COLLEGES 
 

1. COURSE OFFERINGS 
Process for requesting of course offerings from another college. 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty members 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Letter of request  Client 

FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

BE PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Department Chair (if applicable) or 1.  Dean of the servicing unit receives None 7 Working Department Chair or 

Program Coordinator writes a letter the request and identifies the Days Program Coordinator 
of request for a course [endorsed faculty member who is available to Communication, Art, 
by the Dean] addressed to the handle the requested course and Design 
Dean of the servicing unit.   

 2.  Servicing unit approves the Dean 
2. The request includes the proposed request including changes made to College of receiving 

schedule. the proposed schedule. unit 
 

Dean 
College of servicing 

unit 
TOTAL None 7 Working  

Days 

 568 

580



 

 

2. REQUEST FOR FACULTY 
Request for acquiring the services of a faculty member from another college 

 
Office or Division All colleges 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty members 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Request letter  Client 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Department Chair (if applicable) or 1.  The concerned faculty is asked for None 3 Working Days Department Chair 

Program Coordinator writes a letter his/her availability or 
of request for a faculty member  Program 
[endorsed by the Dean] addressed 2.  Servicing unit, either through the Coordinator 
to the Dean of the concerned Dean or the faculty members, Communication, 
college. replies in writing whether the Art, and Design 

 college can accommodate request  
2. The request includes the proposed  Dean 

schedule. 3.  If the servicing unit or college College of receiving 
cannot accommodate the request, unit 
then the client needs to look for  
their own lecturer Dean 

College of servicing 
unit 

TOTAL None 3 Working Days  

 569 

581



 

 

3. REQUEST FOR OFFICIAL DATA/ INFORMATION 
Process for a UP Faculty/student to request official data/information that is within the limits of the Data Privacy Act (RA 10173) 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty members 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
 Request letter  Client 

  
FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 
BE PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Submits a letter to the Dean 1. The Dean, after legal clearances, None 3 Working Days Department Chair or 
responsible for for the specific forwards the request to the Program 
data/document, stating the concerned department/unit. Coordinator 
purpose of the request.  Communication, Art, 

 2. Depending on the nature of the and Design 
2. Signs the request letter to signify request, the concerned  

receipt of the data/document. department/unit should be able to Dean 
produce the requested College of receiving 
data/document within days. unit 

  
3. The Dean releases the Dean 

data/document College of servicing 
unit 

TOTAL None 3 Working Days  

 

 570 

582



COLLEGE OF SCIENCE (CS) 

EXTERNAL SERVICES 
 

1. Application to Graduate Programs 
The College of Science offers Master’s Program in Computer Science and Environmental Studies. The Master of Science in 
Computer Science (MSCS) is offered under the Department of Computer Science (DCS) while the Master of Science in 
Environmental Studies is offered under the Department of Biology and Environmental Science (DBES). This service is intended for 
MSCS and MSES applicants. 

 
Office of Division COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Applicants for the Master of Environmental Studies and Master of Science in 

Computer Science Programs 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

• Application Letter • Applicant 
• Application Form • Office of the College of Secretary (OCS) 
• TOR • DBES Office 
• Recommendation Form • DCS Office  

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1.1. Furnish requested application 
documents None 1 day OCS Staff 

1. Request application 
documents (Application Form 
and Recommendation Form) 1.2. Ask applicant to pay non- MSCS: 

refundable application fee • (local): Php 2 minutes OCS Staff 
100.00 

583



• (foreign 
resident): 
Php 200.00 

• (foreign 
non-
resident): 
USD 25.00 

MSES: 
• (local): Php 

250.00 
• (foreign): 

USD 25.00 

1.1. Receive the application 
documents and TOR  None 5 minutes OCS Staff 

2. Submit accomplished 2.2. Evaluate the TOR 
application documents and TOR None 1 day OCS Staff 

*Make sure non-refundable 
application fee is paid at the 2.3. Evaluate the application Department Chair, 
Cash Office documents None 1 day Program Adviser, and 

Program faculty 

 
2.4. Release evaluation result None 1 day OCS Staff 

TOTAL  4 days, 7 
minutes  

   
  

584



2. Admission Test for Non-Degree Graduate Program  
The Department of Computer Science (DCS) offers a  non-degree graduate program in Computer Science to applicants who do not 
meet the undergraduate program requirement of the MSCS program. The Admission Test measures the applicant's readiness to 
undertake a non-degree program that will eventually qualify him/her for a Masters in Computer Science program in the university. 

 
Office of Division COLLEGE OF SCIENCE  
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Applicants for Master of Science in Computer Science Program 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
• Payment Slip • DCS 
• MSCS application evaluation result 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Apply for non-degree 
program 1.1. Release payment slip Php 700.00 5 minutes OCS Staff 

2.1. Receive official receipt for testing 
2. Submit official receipt for fee None 5 minutes OCS Staff 
testing fee 

2.2. Schedule the admission test None 1 day Program Adviser 
3.1. Administer admission test None 4 hours Designated Faculty 
3.2. Check the admission test 

3. Take admission test None 3 days Program Faculty 
3.3. Release admission test results None 5 minutes OCS Staff 
3.4. Release letter of acceptance None 5 minutes OCS Staff 

TOTAL 4 days, 4 hours, 
Php 700.00 20 minutes  

 
 
 

585



3. Request for Services  
         As part of UP’s mandate to serve, our faculty accepts requests from external stakeholders for services in a 

form of consultancy, as judge in research competition, as resource speaker and the like. 
 
Office of Division COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 

G2B – Government to Business 
G2G – Government to Government 

Who may avail Stakeholders 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

• Letter of Invitation • Personal 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1.1. Receive letter of invitation None 5 minutes Faculty 

1. Send letter of invitation 1.2. Evaluate letter of invitation None 1 day Faculty 
1.3. Inform client of the decision of the 
invitation None 5 minutes Faculty 

TOTAL None 1 day, 10  
minutes 

 
  

586



4. Application for OJT to College of Science  
The College of Science caters to requests from external educational institutions for their students to conduct On the Job Training 
(OJT) in any of our research programs in the college. 

 
Office of Division COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
Classification Highly Technical 

G2C – Government to Citizen 
Type of Transaction G2B – Government to Business 

G2G – Government to Government  
Who may avail Requesting Institution 

CHECKLIST  OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
• Letter of Request • Requesting Institution 
• MOA • College 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1.1. Receive the letter request for OJT None 5 minutes Department Staff 
1.2. Evaluate the feasibility of offering Department Chair / 
OJT None 2 days Program Coordinator 
1.3. Submit the recommendation to 

1. Submit letter request for the Dean for action None 10 minutes Department Staff 

OJT addressed to the 1.4. Receive recommendation None 5 minutes College Staff 
department/program 1.5. Evaluate recommendation None 5 days Dean 
 1.6. Approve/Disapprove the 

recommendation None 5 minutes Dean 

1.7. Send communication to the 
requesting institution to initiate the None 10 minutes College Staff 
drafting of MOA, if approved 

2. Submit draft MOA 2.1. Receive draft MOA None 
 5 minutes College Staff 

587



 

2.2. Review draft MOA None 5 days Dean 
2.3. Forward to legal office for 
evaluation and clearance  None 10 minutes College Staff 

 2.4. Receive cleared MOA from legal 
office None 5 days College Staff 

2.5. Schedule a MOA signing. None 1 day Focal Person (Faculty) 

3.1. Sign MOA together with the 
requesting institution for notarization None 2 hours Chancellor and Dean 

3. Visit UP Cebu for MOA 
signing 3.2. Communicate with the focal 

person of the requesting institution for None 1 hour Focal Person (Faculty) 
the mechanics of the OJT program. 

17 days, 3 
TOTAL None hours, 50  

minutes 

 
  

588



INTERNAL SERVICES 
 

1. Request for Local Travel Order  
              The faculty in the college has to request for local travel order at least three (3) days prior to their scheduled official travel. 
 

Office of Division COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST  OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
• UIS 
• Letter Request for Travel 
• Invitation Letter Online: https://uis.up.edu.ph 
• Acceptance Letter 
• Itinerary 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1.1. Receive the application for 
Travel Order None 5 minutes Department Chair 

1.2. Evaluate the application for 
1. Apply local Travel Order Travel None 1 hour Department Chair 
through UIS 

1.3. Approve the application for 
*Application should be made Travel Order None 2 minutes Department Chair 
at least three (3) days before 
the official travel 1.4. Receive the application for 

Travel Order None 5 minutes Dean 

1.5. Evaluate the application for 
Travel None 1 hour Dean 

589



1.6. Approve the application for 
Travel Order None 2 minutes Dean 

2.1. Receive the letter request 
for travel None 5 minutes Department Staff 

2.2. Endorse the letter request 
for travel None 10 minutes Department Chair 

2.3. Forward the letter request 
2. Submit letter request for for travel to the Office of the None 10 minutes Department Staff 
travel with complete Dean for endorsement 
attachments (UIS printed 2.4. Receive the letter request 
Travel Order, Invitation Letter, for travel None 5 minutes College Staff 
Acceptance Letter, Itinerary) 2.5. Endorse the letter request 

for travel None 10 minutes Dean 

2.6. Forward the letter request 
for travel to the Office of the 
Vice Chancellor for Academic None 10 minutes College Staff 
Affairs 

TOTAL None 3 hours, 9 minutes  
 
 
   
  

590



2. Request for International Travel Order  
              The faculty in the college has to request for international travel order at least three (3) days prior to their 

scheduled official travel. 
 

Office of Division COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST  OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
• UIS 
• Application for Authority to Travel Abroad 
• Letter Request for Travel 
• Invitation Letter Online: https://uis.up.edu.ph 
• Acceptance Letter 
• Itinerary 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1.1. Receive the application for 
Travel Order None 5 minutes Department Chair 

1.2. Evaluate the application for 
Travel None 1 hour Department Chair 

1. Apply international Travel 
Order through UIS 1.3. Approve the application for 

Travel Order None 2 minutes Department Chair 
*Application should be made 
at least three (3) days before 1.4. Receive the application for 

Travel Order None 5 minutes Dean 
the official travel 

1.5. Evaluate the application for 
Travel None 1 hour Dean 

1.6. Approve the application for 
Travel Order None 2 minutes Dean 

591



2.1. Receive the letter request 
for travel None 5 minutes Department Staff 

2.2. Endorse the letter request 
for travel None 10 minutes Department Chair 

2. Submit letter request for 2.3. Forward the letter request 
travel with complete for travel to the Office of the None 10 minutes Department Staff 
attachments (Invitation Letter, Dean for endorsement 
Application for Authority to 2.4. Receive the letter request 
Travel Abroad, Acceptance for travel None 5 minutes College Staff 
Letter, Itinerary) 

2.5. Endorse the letter request 
 for travel None 10 minutes Dean 

2.6. Forward the letter request 
for travel to the Office of the 
Vice Chancellor for Academic None 10 minutes College Staff 
Affairs 

TOTAL None 3 hours, 9 minutes  
 
 
  
 
  

592



3. Request for Funding for Local Travel Through API 
              The College of Science faculty and staff shall submit request if official local travel is to be charged through 

API funds. 
 

Office of Division COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty and Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
• Personal 

• Letter Request for Funding • Office of the College of Science 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1.1. Receive the letter request for 
funding for travel None 5 minutes Department Staff 

1.2. Endorse the letter request for 
funding for travel None 10 minutes Department Chair 

1.3. Forward the letter request for 
funding for travel to the Office of None 10 minutes Department Staff 

1. Submit Letter Request for the Dean for endorsement 
Funding 1.4. Receive the letter request for 

funding for travel None 5 minutes College Staff 

1.5. Endorse the letter request for 
funding for travel None 10 minutes Dean 

1.6. Forward the letter request for 
funding for travel to the Central None 10 minutes College Staff  
Visayas Studies Center 

TOTAL None 50 minutes  
 

593



 
4. Request for Funding for Local Travel through Fund Source 

The College of Science faculty and staff shall submit request if official local travel is to be charged through UP fund source. 
 
Office of Division COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty and Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
• Personal 

• Letter Request for Funding • Office of the College of Science 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1.1. Receive the letter request for 
funding for travel None 5 minutes Department Staff 

1.2. Endorse the letter request for 
funding for travel None 10 minutes Department Chair 

1.3. Forward the letter request for 
funding for travel to the Office of None 10 minutes Department Staff 

1. Submit Letter Request for the Dean for endorsement 
Funding 1.4. Receive the letter request for 

funding for travel None 5 minutes College Staff 

1.5. Endorse the letter request for 
funding for travel None 10 minutes Dean 

1.6. Forward the letter request for 
funding for travel to the Budget None 10 minutes College Staff  
Office 

TOTAL None 50 minutes  
 

594



 
5. Request for Funding for International Travel through Research Dissemination Grant 

Any faculty in the College of Science whose research is accepted for presentation in an international conference is eligible 
to apply for funding  through the UP Research Dissemination Grant. 
 

Office of Division COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST  OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
• Letter Request for Funding • Personal 
• Research Dissemination Grant Application Form • Office of the College of Science 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1.1. Receive the letter request for 
funding for travel None 5 minutes Department Staff 

1.2. Endorse the letter request for 
funding for travel None 10 minutes Department Chair 

1.3. Forward the letter request for 
1. Submit Letter Request for funding for travel to the Office of 
Funding with attached None 10 minutes Department Staff 

the Dean for endorsement 
accomplished Research 
Dissemination Grant Application 1.4. Receive the letter request for 
Form  funding for travel None 5 minutes College Staff 

1.5. Endorse the letter request for 
funding for travel None 10 minutes Dean 

1.6. Forward the letter request for 
funding for travel to the Budget None 10 minutes  College Staff  
Office 

595



1.7. Retrieve the endorsed letter 
request for funding for travel and 
RDG Application Form from the None 5 minutes Department Staff 
Office of the Chancellor 
1.8. Forward the letter request for 
funding for travel and RDG 
Application Form to Office of the None 10 minutes Department Staff 
Vice President for Academic 
Affairs 

TOTAL None 1 hour, 5 
minutes  

  

596



6. Nomination of Guidance/Advisory Committee 
     As part of the graduate thesis guidelines, the MSCS and MSES students who are to enroll in CS 300  and ENS 300 

respectively, shall process the constitution of the Guidance/Advisory Committee before conducting their thesis.  
 
Office of Division COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Graduate Student (MSCS and MSES) 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
• Graduate Student 

• Nomination Form • Department/Program Office 
• CV of experts from external institutions • College of Science 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Secure Nomination Form 1. Furnish Nomination Form None 5 minutes OCS Staff 
2.1. Receive accomplished 
Nomination Form None 5 minutes Department Staff 

2.2. Endorse Nomination Form None 5 minutes Program Adviser 
2.3. Forward Nomination Form to 
the Office of the Department Chair None 10 minutes Department Staff 

2.  Submit accomplished 2.4. Receive Nomination Form 
Nomination Form (signed by None 5 minutes Department Chair 
Thesis Advisory Committee) for 2.5 Recommend approval of 
sequential signing Nomination Form None 5 minutes Department Chair 

2.6. Forward Nomination Form to 
the Office of the Dean None 10 minutes Department Staff 

2.7. Receive Nomination Form None 5 minutes College Staff 
2.8. Approve/Disapprove 
Nomination Form None 5 minutes Dean 

597



2.9. Forward Nomination Form to 
the Office of the Department Chair None 10 minutes College Staff 

2.10. Receive Nomination Form None 5 minutes Department Staff 
2.11. Furnish Copy of Nomination 
Form None 1 day Department Staff 

TOTAL None 1 day, 1 hour, 
5 minutes  

 
  

598



7. Application for Thesis Defense 
As part of the graduate thesis guidelines, the MSCS and MSES students who are enrolled in CS 300  and ENS 300 
respectively, shall have an approved application for proposal/thesis defense before the scheduled proposal/thesis defense. 
 

Office of Division COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Graduate Student 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
• Office of the College Secretary 

• Thesis Proposal/Oral Defense Application Form • Office of the College Secretary 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Secure Thesis Proposal/Oral 1. Furnish Thesis Proposal/Oral 
Defense Application Form Defense Application Form None 5 minutes OCS Staff 

2.1. Receive accomplished 
Thesis Proposal/Oral Defense None 5 minutes Department Staff 
Application Form 

2. Submit accomplished Thesis 
Proposal/Oral Defense Application 2.2. Endorse Thesis 
Form (signed by Thesis Advisory Proposal/Oral Defense None 5 minutes Program Adviser 
Committee) for sequential signing Application Form 

*The advisory panel is furnished a 2.3. Forward Thesis 
copy of the thesis Proposal/Oral Defense 
proposal/manuscript at least 2 Application Form to the Office of None 10 minutes Department Staff 

weeks prior to the defense the Department Chair 
2.4. Receive Thesis 
Proposal/Oral Defense None 5 minutes Department Chair 
Application Form 

599



2.5 Recommend approval of 
Thesis Proposal/Oral Defense None 5 minutes Department Chair 
Application Form 
2.6. Forward Thesis 
Proposal/Oral Defense 
Application Form to the Office of None 10 minutes Department Staff 
the Dean 
2.7. Receive Thesis 
Proposal/Oral Defense None 5 minutes College Staff 
Application Form 
2.8. Approve/Disapprove Thesis 
Proposal/Oral Defense None 5 minutes Dean 
Application Form 
2.9. Forward Thesis 
Proposal/Oral Defense 
Application Form to the Office of None 10 minutes College Staff 
the Department Chair 
2.10. Receive Thesis 
Proposal/Oral Defense None 5 minutes Department Staff 
Application Form 
2.11. Furnish Copy of Thesis 
Proposal/Oral Defense None 1 day Department Staff 
Application Form 

TOTAL None 1 day, 1 hour, 5 
minutes  

 
 
 
  

600



8. Request of Thesis Defense Report 
                     The graduate student can request for the release of his/her defense report a day after conducting his proposal/oral defense. 
 
Office of Division COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Graduate Student 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
• Document Request Form • Office of the College Secretary 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Secure Document Request Form 1. Furnish Document Request 
Form None 5 minutes OCS Staff 
2.1. Receive accomplished 
Document Request Form None 5 minutes Department Staff 

2. Submit accomplished Document 
Request Form 2.2. Approve release of Thesis 

Proposal Defense Report None 5 minutes Depart Chair 
*Thesis Defense Report 

2.2. Release Thesis Defense 
Report None 5 minutes Department Staff 

TOTAL None 20 minutes  
 

  

601



       10. Request for Appointment of External Critic/Reader 
             As part of the constitution of the Thesis Oral Examination/Defense Committee, the graduate student need to request 

the appointment of an external critique. 
 
Office of Division COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Graduate Student 

External Critic 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

• Conforme 
• CV • Personal 
• MOA 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1.1. Receive name of external 
critic/reader None 5 minutes Department Staff 

1.2. Evaluate external critic/reader 
CV None 1 day Department Chair 

1. Submit name of external 1.3. Recommend approval of 
critic/reader with CV, conforme, external critic/reader None 5 minutes Department Chair 

and MOA along with Thesis 1.4. Forward name of external 
Oral Defense Application Form critic/reader with CV, conforme, and 
*with concurrence of the thesis MOA along with Thesis Oral None 10 minutes Department Staff 
advise Defense Application Form to the 

Offfice of the Dean 
1.5. Receive name of external 
critic/reader with CV, conforme, and 
MOA along with Thesis Oral None 5 minutes College Staff 
Defense Application Form 

602



1.6. Evaluate name of external 
critic/reader with CV, conforme, and 
MOA along with Thesis Oral None 1 day Dean 
Defense Application Form 
1.7. Release appointment of 
external critic/reader to the Office of None 5 minutes Dean 
the Department Chair 

TOTAL None 1 day, 30 
minutes  

 
  

603



9. Request for Change of Adviser/Panel Member 
               The graduate student is allowed to request for a change of Adviser or Panel member in the event that the adviser or  

member of the Thesis Panel is no longer available for a valid reason or that the graduate student finds it necessary to 
change the constitution of his/her panel to resolve issues in research specialization. 

 
Office of Division COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Graduate Student 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
• Letter Request • Personal 
• Conforme 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1.1. Receive letter request for 
Change of Adviser/Panel 
Member with Conforme from None 5 minutes Department Staff 
new Adviser/Panel Member  
1.2. Endorse letter request for 

1. Submit letter request for Change Change of Adviser/Panel 
of Adviser/Panel Member with Member with Conforme from None 5 minutes Thesis Adviser 

Conforme from new Adviser/Panel new Adviser/Panel Member 
Member 1.3. Evaluate letter request for 

Change of Adviser/Panel 
Member with Conforme from None 1 day Department Chair 
new Adviser/Panel Member 
1.4. Recommend approval of 
letter request for Change of None 5 minutes Department Chair 
Adviser/Panel Member with 

604



Conforme from new 
Adviser/Panel Member 
1.5. Forward letter request for 
Change of Adviser/Panel 
Member with Conforme from None 10 minutes Department Staff 
new Adviser/Panel Member to 
the Office of the Dean 
1.6. Approve/Disapprove letter 
request for Change of 
Adviser/Panel Member with None 5 minutes Dean 
Conforme from new 
Adviser/Panel Member 
1.7. Furnish Copy of 
Approved/Disapproved request 
for Chanve of Adviser/Panel None 5 minutes College Staff 
Membership to the Office of the 
Department Chair 

TOTAL None 1 day, 35 
minutes  

 
 
 
 

  

605



10. Releasing of Thesis Panel Honoraria 
            The members of the Thesis Guidance/Advisory Committee are entitled to receive honoraria after the graduate student 

has already submitted the hardbound copy of his/her MS thesis. 
 
Office of Division COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OFe REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
• Letter of Request • Department Office 
• Report of Oral Thesis Defense  
• Acceptance sheet 
• Appointment of Guidance Committee members  

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1.1 Receive request None 5 minutes Department Staff 
1.2 Endorse request None 5 minutes Department Chair 
1.3 Forward to Office of the 

1. Submit Request for the release of     Dean None 10 minutes Department Staff 

Thesis Panel honoraria 1.4 Receive endorsed request None 5 minutes College Staff 
1.5 Approve request None 5 minutes Dean 
1.6 Submit approved request to 
      Accounting Office None 10 minutes College Staff 

TOTAL None  40 minutes  
 
 
     
  

606



11. Request for Official Student Travel 
               This request applies to the faculty whose students are to travel and conduct field work as part of the requirements of the course. 
 
Office of Division COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
• Letter Request for Official Student Travel • Personal 

• Online: https://uis.up.edu.ph 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1.1. Receive the letter request for 
Official Student Travel None 5 minutes Department Staff 
1.2. Endorse the letter request for 
Official Student Travel None 10 minutes Department Chair 
1.3. Forward the letter request for 
Official Student Travel to the Office 

1. Submit letter request for None 10 minutes Department Staff 
of the Dean for endorsement 

Official Student Travel with 
attachments (Waiver etc.) 1.4. Receive the letter request for 

Official Student Travel None 5 minutes College Staff 
1.5. Endorse the letter request for 
Official Student Travel None 10 minutes Dean 
1.6. Forward the letter request for 
Official Student Travel to Office of None 10 minutes College Staff 
Student Affairs 

TOTAL None 50 minutes  
 
 

607



12. Assistance to Students in the Conduct of OJT  
               As part of the course requirements of the BS Computer Science program, the students have to enroll in a CS course  for them 

to conduct their On the Job Training (OJT) to external institution/company. 
          
Office of Division COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
• Memorandum of Agreement with Company • Department 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1.1. Receive prepared 
Memorandum of Agreement None 5 minutes College Staff 

1. Submit prepared Memorandum 1.2. Sign the Memorandum of 
of Agreement Agreement None 5 minutes Dean 

1.3. Forward the Memorandum of 
Agreement for notarization None 10 minutes College Staff 

TOTAL None 20 minutes  
 
 
 
 
  

608



13. Request for Short term use of Laboratory Equipment and Non-Consumable Material(Chemistry,  
Physics, Biology, Computer Science, and Stat) 
The students enrolled in any laboratory course in the college shall process request for the use of laboratory equipment and non-
consumable materials. 

 
 

Office of Division COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Student 

Faculty 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

• Borrower’s Slip • Laboratory 
• User’s Logbook 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Request use of equipment 1.1. Receive request None 5 minutes Lab Technician 
and non-consumable material 
through borrower’s 
slip/logbook. 1.2. Release requested items  None 10 minutes Lab Technician 

2.1. Receive the borrowed items. None 5 minutes Lab Technician 

2.2. Check for broken materials or 
2. Return the borrowed items damaged equipment  None 10 minutes Lab Technician 

2.3. Record the accountability of the 
student/faculty in case of broken None 5 minutes Lab Technician 
materials or damaged equipment 

609



TOTAL None 35 minutes  
 
 
14. Request for Long term Use of Laboratory Equipment and Non-Consumable Material (Chemistry,  

Physics, Biology) 
         The students enrolled in any laboratory course in the college shall process request for the use of laboratory equipment and 

non-consumable materials. 
 
Office of Division COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Student 

Faculty 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

• Letter Request • Laboratory 
• User’s Logbook 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1.1. Receive request None 5 minutes Department Staff 
1. Submit three (3) copies of 
letter request for long term use 
of equipment and non- 1.2. Evaluate the request None 1 hour Department Chair 
consumable material. 
 

1.3. Endorse request to the Office of the 
Dean None 5 minutes College Staff 

610



1.4. Evaluate the Request None 1 hour Dean 

1.5. Approve/Disapprove request None 5 minutes Dean 

2.1. Receive approved letter request 
2. Submit a copy of the None 5 minutes Lab Technician 
approved letter request 2.2. Allow the use of the requested 

equipment. None 5 minutes Lab Technician 

3.1. Receive the equipment None 5 minutes Lab Technician 
3. Return the equipment within 
the approved period in the 3.2. Check for broken materials or 

damaged equipment  None 10 minutes Lab Technician 
letter 

3.3. Countersign the approved letter (2 
copies) to indicate the return.  None 5 minutes Lab Technician 

4. Submit the countersigned 
approved letter to the faculty 4. Receive the countersigned letter None 5 minutes MR Holder/Faculty 
MR Holder 

TOTAL None 2 hours, 50 
minutes  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

611



 
 
 
 
 
 

15. Request Use for Consumable/Disposable Laboratory Materials (Chemistry, Biology) 
              The students enrolled in Chemistry and Biology laboratory courses in the college shall process request for the use of  

laboratory equipment and consumable materials. 
 
Office of Division COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Student 

Faculty 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

• Request Form • Laboratory 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1.1. Receive request None 5 minutes Lab Technician 
1. Request use consumable 
material  

1.2. Release requested items None 10 minutes Lab Technician 

TOTAL None 15 minutes  
  

612



16. Student Department Clearance  
    At every end of the semester, the students are required to process their clearance in the department as a requirement for their 

enrolment in the next semester. 
 
Office of Division COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Student 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
• All borrowed equipment are returned to the lab stockroom • Personal 
• Payment of UPECS dues  
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1.1. Receive and sign clearance form None Laboratory Technician / 

 5 minutes Laboratory-in-charge 
1. Submit clearance form for 1.2. Receive and sign clearance form Program-based 

None 5 minutes 
sequential signing Organization Adviser 

1.3. Receive and sign clearance form None 5 minutes Program Adviser 
1.4. Receive and sign clearance form None 5 minutes Department Chair 

2. Submit accomplished 2.1. Received accomplished 
clearance  clearance None 5 minutes College Clerk 

TOTAL None 25 minutes  
 
 
 

613



 

COLLEGE OF SOCIAL SCIENCES (CSS) 
EXTERNAL SERVICES 
 
1. Suggestion from other stakeholders 
Stakeholders who want to submit suggestions for the college. 
 
Office or Division: All Colleges 
Classification: Simple 
Type of Transaction: G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail: Non-student stakeholders  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
None College Staff 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Stakeholder may email 1. Staff acknowledges the receipt of 

College Staff 
suggestions. email within 3 days. 

College of Social Sciences 
2. Concerned party replies to 2. Staff forwards the email to the 

 
the email through the concerned party. None 3 Working Days 

Dean 
college email within 3 days. 3. Staff replies to the email with the 

College of Social Sciences 
response of the concerned party 

 
within the day. 

 TOTAL None 3 Working Days  
  

 
 

614



 

INTERNAL SERVICES 
 
1. Student Request for Consultation Services 

Process for procuring consultations with faculty 
 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Student 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Request for Appointment ● Faculty, College Staff 
FEES TO BE PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
PAID TIME 

1. Student requests for an 1. Approval by Faculty College Staff 
appointment. College of Social Sciences 

None 1 Working Day  
Faculty 

College of Social Sciences 
TOTAL None 1 Working Day  

  

 
 

615



 

2. Request for Authentication of Documents / Certificates 
Process wherein a requestor asks for his/her documents to be authenticated by the college 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government of Citizen 
Who may avail Students and Alumni 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Letter for authentication ● Personal 
FEES TO PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
BE PAID TIME 

1. Student submits the letter 1. Staff accepts, reviews, and College Staff 
for authentication countersigns the letter College of Social Sciences 
   

2. College Secretary/Dean signs OCS Staff 
None 2 Working Days Office of the College 

Secretary 
 

Dean 
College of Social Sciences 

TOTAL None 2 Working Days  
  

 
 

616



 

3. Request to use classrooms/facilities (outside of class hours) 
Students may use UPC facilities, and this is the process of requesting usage of classroom/facilities after class hours 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail UP Cebu faculty, staff, and students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Request form   ● Campus Maintenance Office (CMO) 
PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
TIME 

1. Fills up the request form and 1. Staff accepts and checks None, if academic-
submits it to the respective for the availability of the related 
college/division.  CMO room. Dean approves or  College Staff 
(janitor) also signs on the disapproves For non-academic College of Social Sciences 
request form to ensure clean  use, P50/hour is  
up after the activity. 2. Cashier receives charged for one air- Dean 

1 Working Day 
 payment and issues an conditioning unit College of Social Sciences 

2. Pays at the Cashier’s Office OR   
for use of the aircon if Pay per hour for Cash Office Staff 
authority for free use was not cleaner/s if use goes Cash Office 
granted beyond working 

hours of the janitor. 
TOTAL Case-to-case Basis 1 Working Day  

  

 
 

617



 

4. Suggestions from Students 
Process of handling suggestions from students 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Suggestion form ● College Staff 
FEES TO BE PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
PAID TIME 

1. The student accomplishes 1. Admin Staff acknowledges 
suggestion form (two receipt of the form and gives College Staff 
copies) available in one copy to the student and College of Social Sciences 
respective colleges one copy to the College  

3 Working Days 
 Secretary None  

 
  

2. College Secretary / Dean Dean 
responds to the suggestion College of Social Sciences 

 
TOTAL None 3 Working Days  

  

 
 

618



 

5. Request for Official Travel Order  
Process of requesting for Official Travel Order 
 

Office or Division All colleges 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty, staff, and student 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Letter addressed to the Chancellor 

● UIS ● up.edu.ph account 

● Official Travel Order 
FEES TO BE PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
PAID TIME 

1. Faculty, staff, or student 1. Letter to be endorsed by College Staff 
makes a request letter Department Chair (if College of Social Sciences 
addressed to the applicable), Dean, then  
Chancellor, through VCAA for faculty. For Admin Department Chair 
channels, detailing why, staff, it should be endorsed College of Social Sciences 
when, and where. by the Dean and VCA. For  
 students, it should be Dean 

2. Faculty, staff, and student endorsed by the Adviser, College of Social Sciences 
access and fill up the UIS Dean, OSA, and VCAA. 3 Working  

 None Days For faculty: 
2. Through UIS and through  Vice Chancellor for Academic 

channels  Affairs 
 Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

3. Chancellor approves  Academic Affairs 
  

4. Office of the Chancellor For admin staff: 

makes and releases the Vice Chancellor for Administration 

Travel Order 
 

 

619



 

Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
Administration 

 
For students: 
OSA Director 

Office of Student Affairs 
and 

Vice Chancellor for Academic 
Affairs 

Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
Academic Affairs 

 
Chancellor 

Office of the Chancellor 
 

TOTAL 3 Working  
None 

Days 
  

 
 

620



 

6. Application for Local Travel Order (non-official) 
Local Travel Order Application process 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
● UIS ● up.edu.ph UIS account 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Fills up UIS 1. Through Channels Department Chair 

 College of Social Sciences 
2. Prints approved UIS  

Dean 
College of Social Sciences 

 
2 Working 

None Vice Chancellor for 
Days 

Administration 
Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

Administration 
 

Chancellor 
Office of the Chancellor 

2 Working  
TOTAL None 

Days 
  

 
 

621



 

7. Application for Research Load Credit 
Research Load Credit (RLC) Application process for academic personnel 

Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
● Letter ● Personal 
● Research Proposal 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Writes letter addressed to 1. CAPC reviews & If request is only three units: 

the Chancellor, through recommends (or not), Department Chair 
channels, three months Department Chair’s (if College of Social Sciences 
prior to the affected applicable) and Dean’s  
semester  endorsement. CAPC 

   
2. Submits certification of 2. Staff receives the letter and Dean 

funding (if applicable) forwards to CVSC for College of Social Sciences 
endorsement.  

15 Working 
 None If request is more than 3 units: 

Days 
3. If three units only, Dean CVSC Director 

approves (or not). Central Visayas Studies Center 

  
Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs 

4. If more than three units, the 
Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

Chancellor approves (or not) 
Academic Affairs 

 
Chancellor 

Office of the Chancellor 
15 Working 

TOTAL None  
Days 

 
 

622



 

 
8. Application for Leave 

Leave application for academic personnel 
 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty, staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Leave Form ● College Staff 
FEES TO BE PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
PAID TIME 

1. Faculty/staff accomplishes 1. Department Chair College Staff 
the form recommends for approval (In College of Social Sciences 

the case of CS)   
 1 Working Day Department Chair 

None 
  College of Social Sciences 
  

2. Dean approves the request. Dean 
College of Social Sciences 

TOTAL None 1 Working Day  
  

 
 

623



 

9. Application for Leave Without Pay 
Leave without pay application for academic personnel 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Letter Request, Leave Form ● Personal, College Staff 
FEES TO BE PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
PAID TIME 

1. Faculty writes a letter 1. Department Chair College Staff 
addressed to the recommends for approval College of Social Sciences 
Chancellor, through (In the case of CS).  
channels, three months  Department Chair 
before the affected  College of Social Sciences 
semester.   
 2. Dean recommends for Dean 

2. Faculty accomplishes the approval. 5 Working College of Social Sciences 
Leave Form  None Days  

 
3. Vice Chancellor for Vice Chancellor for Academic 

Academic Affairs Affairs 

recommends for approval. Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

 Academic Affairs 
 

4. Chancellor approves the 
Chancellor 

request. 
Office of the Chancellor 

 
5 Working 

TOTAL None  
Days 

  

 
 

624



 

10. Application for study leave 
Study Leave application process for academic personnel 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government of Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Letter of Request, Leave Form, Faculty Development 
Plan, School acceptance ● Personal, College Administrative Staff 

 
FEES TO PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
BE PAID TIME 

1. Faculty writes letter 1. CAPC reviews & College Staff 
addressed to the recommends (or not), College of Social Sciences 
Chancellor, through Department Chair’s (if  
channels, one semester applicable) and Dean’s Department Chair or 
before the affected endorsement Program Coordinator 
semester  College of Social Sciences 
 2. CAPC submits endorsement  

2. Faculty fills up the leave to AcPFC Dean 
20 Working Days 

form  None College of Social Sciences 
 

3. AcPFC reviews &  

recommends action on Vice Chancellor for Academic 

request to the Chancellor Affairs 

 Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
Academic Affairs 

4. Chancellor reviews and acts 
 

on the request 
Chancellor 

Office of the Chancellor 
TOTAL None 20 Working Days  

  
 

 

625



 

11. Application for Faculty Grant 
Grant Application process for faculty 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Faculty Grant Form ● College Administrative Staff 
FEES TO BE PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
PAID TIME 

1. Faculty waits for the call for 1. CAPC reviews documents for Staff 
faculty grant endorsement College of Social Sciences 
   

2. Submits form with 2. AcPFC reviews, ranks for CAPC 
supporting documents to endorsement 20 Working Days 

None  
the CAPC for endorsement   AcPFC 

3. Chancellor reviews and  

approves request  Chancellor 

 Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 20 Working Days  
  

 
 

626



 

12.  Application for Research Grant 
Application for faculty to apply for a research grant through the Central Visayas Studies Center (CVSC) 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Research Grant Form ● College Administrative Staff 
FEES TO BE PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
PAID TIME 

1. Faculty waits for the call 1. Dean endorses the form College Staff 
for research grant 2. CVSC sends the research College of Social Sciences 
 document out for peer review   

2. Faculty writes a letter 3. CVSC returns proposal to Dean 
and attach the CVSC  faculty for revisions  College of Social Sciences 
research template 4. CVSC endorses revised  
 proposal to VCAA  CVSC Director 

3. Submits to the Dean for 5. VCAA endorses proposal for Central Visayas Studies Center 
endorsement Chancellor’s approval  
 6. CVSC processes the research 20 Working Days Vice Chancellor for Academic 

None 
4. Faculty responds to the contract and returns to faculty  Affairs 

reviewer’s comments for signature Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
and submit revised 7. OVCAA staff prepares the Academic Affairs 
proposal to CVSC Disbursement Voucher (DV),  

Obligation Request (OBR) with OVCAA Staff 
the signed contract for fund Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
release Academic Affairs 

 
Chancellor 

Office of the Chancellor 
TOTAL None 20 Working Days  

 
 

627



 

13.   Application for Authority to Travel Abroad 
Application process for UP employees to apply for authority to travel abroad 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty and staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
● Request letter addressed to the Chancellor, through 

channels ● up.edu.ph UIS account 
● UIS: international travel order  

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Writes a letter addressed to 1. Department Chair (if 1 Working Day Department Chair 

the Chancellor through applicable), Dean, VCAA  College of Social Sciences 
channels. If academic / endorse the letter.   
administrative work is going to   Dean 
be affected, indicate your plan 2. Once approved, the office 1 Working Day College of Social Sciences 
to cover or make up for missed of the Chancellor issues   
classes and administrative the Authority to Travel None Vice Chancellor for 
work.  Abroad Academic Affairs 
 Office of the Vice Chancellor 

2. Accomplishes form at UIS: for Academic Affairs 
international travel  

Chancellor 
Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 2 Working Days  
  

 
 

628



 

14.  Request to Hire New Faculty 
The college requests permission to hire academic personnel 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
● Letter of Request, faculty Loading for the entire Academic 

Year,  ● Department/ Program 
● Basic Papers (justification for hiring, CV of the applicant, ● Applicant 

hiring criteria, medical certificate, psychological test result) 
FEES TO BE 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Department Chair/ Program 1. Submits to HRDO for 10 Working Department Chair or 
Coordinator or Dean writes a AcPFC review and Days  Program Coordinator 
letter of request endorsed by endorsement  College of Social Sciences 
CAPC addressed to the    
Chancellor through channels, 2. Submits endorsed  Dean 
one semester in advance request with supporting  College of Social Sciences 
(Basic papers attached to documents for 10 Working Days  
request) Chancellor’s approval  CAPC 

 None  

 AcPFC 
 

HRDO Head 
Human Resource 

Development Office 
 

Chancellor 
Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 20 Working Days  

 
 

629



 

15. Request Authority to Hire 
The college requests permission to hire academic personnel 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Department Chair/Program Coordinator 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Letter Request, Academic Loading ● Personal, Department/Program Office 
FEES TO BE PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
PAID TIME 

1. Department Chair/Program 1. CAPC endorses the request 10 Working Days Department Chair or 
Coordinator writes a letter and forwards the letter and   Program Coordinator 
addressed to the Chancellor the attachments to HRDO  College of Social Sciences 
through channels asking for for AcPFC review and   
authority to hire new faculty endorsement  AcPFC 
(three months before the start    
of the semester)  None 10 Working Days HRDO Head 
  Human Resource 

2. Attaches the academic 2. AcPFC forwards the request Development Office 
loading for the entire school to the Chancellor for  
year or the remaining approval. Chancellor 
semester  Office of the Chancellor 

 
TOTAL None 20 Working Days  

  

 
 

630



 

16. UP Cebu Research Dissemination Grant (RDG) and Funding 
Request for UP Cebu Research Dissemination Grant (RDG) and Release of RDG Fund 
 

Office or Division All colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
● Request letter addressed to the Chancellor through channels 
● Application Form (UP-Cebu-RDG-Forms-1-2-final-2) 

● http://cvsc.upcebu.edu.ph/index.php/downloadable-forms/ 
● Attachments: information about the conference, and paper to 

be presented. 
FEES TO PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
BE PAID TIME 

1. Writes letter request 1. Endorsed by the Department Applicant 
addressed to the Chair (if applicable), Dean,  
Chancellor through CVSC Director, VCAA CVSC Director 
channels  Central Visayas Studies Center 
 2. Approval of the Chancellor  

2. Accomplishes UP Cebu  Vice Chancellor for Academic 
RDG form 3. Once approved, staff prepares Affairs  

 the DV and OBR status Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

3. Attaches supporting  Academic Affairs 
None 15 Working Days 

documents   
4. Dean endorses the release of 

 Chancellor 
payment, OVCAA 

Office of the Chancellor 
4. Once approved, follows up recommends and Chancellor 

 
on the release of RDG approves 

College Staff 
 

College of Social Sciences 
5. Staff inputs in UIS  

 Budget Office 
 

 
 

631



 

6. Cashier prepares & releases Accounting Office 
the check once signed  

Cash Office Staff 
Cash Office 

TOTAL None 15 Working Days  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

632



 

 
 
17. Renewal of Faculty 

Process of Renewal of a faculty's appointment for the next academic term/s 
 

Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Program Coordinator/Department Chair 

 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Letter Request, SET ● Personal, Department/Program Office 
FEES TO PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
BE PAID TIME 

1. Department Chair/Program 1. CAPC endorses the request 10 Working Days Department Chair or  
Coordinator writes a letter and forward the letter and the  Program Coordinator  
addressed to the Chancellor attachments to HRDO for  College of Social Sciences 
through channels (two months AcPFC review and   
before the semester starts) endorsement.   Dean or CAPC 
  10 Working Days College of Social Sciences 

2. Department Chair/Program 2. AcPFC forwards the request  
Coordinator attaches the to the Chancellor for None HRDO Head 
following documents: justification approval. Human Resources 
with CAPC endorsement, recent Development Office 
SET of faculty, faculty loading for  
the next school year  Vice Chancellor for 

Academic Affairs or AcPFC 
Office of the Vice Chancellor 

for Academic Affairs 
TOTAL None 20 Working Days  

  

 
 

633



 

18. Request for UP System RDG Grants/International Publication Award 
Process of requesting and releasing of Research Dissemination Grant (RDG) from UP System 

 
Office or Division All colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
● Application Form ● https://ovpaa.up.edu.ph/ 
● Attachments  

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Accesses and downloads 1. Forms need to be endorsed by Applicant 

forms from the Department Chair (if  
https://ovpaa.up.edu.ph/ applicable), Dean, CVSC CVSC Director 
 Director, VCAA. Central Visayas Studies Center 

2. Attaches supporting   
documents  2. OVPAA (through Vice Chancellor for Academic 

 rdg.ovpaa@up.edu.ph or Affairs 

3. Checks ovpaa.up.edu.ph ipa.ovpaa@up.edu.ph ) will Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

for the submission dates for inform applicant by email if Academic Affairs  

the RDG. application was approved.  

  None 45 Working Days  

4. Emails scanned endorsed 3. Once approved, OVPAA sends Office of the Vice President for 

application forms and an email to the applicant for Academic Affairs 

attachments to the release of the grant/award.  

  
rdg.ovpaa@up.edu.ph for 

 
the RDG and 4. Staff prepares the 

Staff 
ipa.ovpaa@up.edu.ph for Disbursement Voucher (DV) 

College of Social Sciences 
the IPA and Obligation Request and 

 
 Status (OBR) 

 
 

 
 

634



 

5. Mails to UP (OVPAA) the 5. Dean endorses the release of  
printed form (with payment, OVCAA Dean 
endorsements and recommends and Chancellor College of Social Sciences 
attachments) approves  

  Chancellor 

6. Forwards the email of 6. Staff inputs in UIS. Office of the Chancellor 

OVPAA to staff to prepare   

for the release of the  
7. Cash office staff prepares & 

grant/award.  
releases the check once 

Cashier 
signed 

Cash Office 
 

TOTAL None 45 Working Days  
  

 
 

635



 

19. Application for Faculty/Staff Clearance 
Clearance process for Academic Personnel 

 
Office or Division All colleges 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty and staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
● Clearance Form  ● HRDO  

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Faculty/staff accomplishes 1. Program Adviser, College All Academic and 

clearance form and have it Secretary, and Dean signs Administrative Heads 
signed by concerned  

None 3 Working Days 
academic and 2. Administrative Head signs 
administrative heads 

 
TOTAL None 3 Working Days  

  

 
 

636



 

20. Application for UP Fellowship Grant 
Fellowship grant application process for academic personnel 

 
Office or Division All colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty, REPS, and Admin Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Letter to OVPAA through channels 

● Proof of university acceptance ● Personal 

● Faculty Development Plan 
FEES TO BE PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
PAID TIME 

1. Submits letter through the 1. CAPC reviews application for Dean 
Dean with supporting fellowship College of Social Sciences 
documents   

 2. Submits endorsement to CAPC 
AcPFC  

  

3. AcPFC reviews application AcPFC 

and makes recommendation to None 20 Working Days  

the Chancellor  

  
Chancellor 

4. Chancellor reviews AcPFC 
Office of the Chancellor 

endorsement and submits 
 

application to OVPAA 
Office of the Vice President 

for Academic Affairs 
TOTAL None 20 Working Days  

  

 
 

637



 

21. Application for Plantilla Item 
Plantilla item application process for academic personnel 

 
Office or Division All colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty, REPS, and Admin Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
   

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Faculty waits for the call for 1. CAPC reviews documents and Department Chair or 

filling up of items. ranks applicants Program Coordinator 
  College of Social Sciences 

2. Submits document on 2. CAPC endorses the assignment  
accomplishments/ of plantilla item to the Chairs 
performances to the CAPC Chancellor  
for evaluation and ranking   Dean 

 None 20 Working Days College of Social Sciences 

3. Chancellor reviews and acts on  

the request CAPC 

  
AcPFC 

 
 

Chancellor 
Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 20 Working Days  
  

 
 

638



 

22. Application for Tenure 
Tenure application process for academic personnel 

 
Office or Division All colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
● Letter of application for tenure 

● Office Staff  
● Evaluation Form  

● Applicant 
● Supporting documents (publication, SET, etc) 

FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 

BE PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Submits a letter of 1. Dean sends letter, together with tenure Applicant 

application for tenure to evaluation form and supporting documents,  
the Dean of the College to the CAPC for evaluation.   
   

2. Prepares and attaches 2. If all papers are complete, CAPC endorses CAPC 
supporting documents. the application for evaluation by the tenured  

 faculty of the college.  Tenured Faculty 
  

3. Dean calls a meeting with the tenured Dean 

faculty to evaluate the application and None 45 Working Days College of Social 

attachments. Sciences 

  
 

4. Tenured faculty endorses (or does not 
 

endorse) based on the application, tenure 
 

evaluation form, and other supporting 
 

documents. 
 

 
 

HRDO Head 

 
 

639



 

5. If endorsed, Dean sends recommendation Human Resource 
of tenured faculty, together with all Development Office 
supporting documents, to HRDO for AcPFC  
evaluation and endorsement. Cover letter  
shall be made indicating the decision of the  
majority on the tenure application.  

 AcPFC 

6. AcPFC reviews recommendation in (5) and  

acts on the recommendation.  

  
 

7. AcPFC sends recommendation to the 
 

Chancellor for final action on the application 
 

for tenure. 
Chancellor 

 
Office of the Chancellor 

8. Chancellor acts on the recommendation.  
 Board of Regents 

9. If recommended, sends the application to 
the BOR for approval. 

TOTAL None 45 Working Days  
 
  

 
 

640



 

23. Request for Supplies 
To request supplies from the Supply Property Management Office 

 
Office or Division All colleges 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty, REPS, and Admin Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Purchase Requisition form 

● Obligation Request form 
● UIS 

● Line Item Budget (if API) 

● Project Procurement Management Plan (PPMP) 
FEES TO PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
BE PAID TIME 

1. Staff makes Purchase 1. Budget Officer checks funds College Staff 
Request (PR) and OBR to availability for the purchase of College of Social Sciences 
be signed by the Dean requested items and signs  
 OBR and endorses this to VCA Dean 

2. Submits PR and OBR with or Chancellor for approval College of Social Sciences 
Line Item Budget (LIB) and   
Project Procurement 2. VCA or Chancellor approves Budget Officer 
Management Plan (PPMP) request Budget Office 

None 7 Working Days 
to the Budget Office   

 3. Approved PR with attached Vice Chancellor for Administration 
 documents is submitted to Office of the Vice Chancellor for 

 (Bids and Awards Committee) Administration 

BAC office for mode of or 

procurement  Chancellor 

 Office of the Chancellor 
 

 
 

641



 

4. Supply and Property BAC Chair 
Management Office (SPMO)  
for procurement Supply Property Management 

 Office 
TOTAL None 7 Working Days  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

642



 

 
 
 
 
 
24. Request for Official Time 

Current faculty's request for an official time from the Chancellor 
 

Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty and staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
● Letter addressed to the Chancellor  ● Applicant  

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Submits a letter addressed to 1. Dean, VCAA, and  Applicant 

the Chancellor through Chancellor endorses  
channels, If academic/ Dean 
administrative work is going to College of Social Sciences 
be affected, indicate your plan  
to cover or make up for missed 3 Working Vice Chancellor for Academic 

None 
classes and administrative Days Affairs 
work.  Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
 Academic Affairs 

2. Fills up UIS for travel order, if  
applicable Chancellor 

Office of the Chancellor 
3 Working  

TOTAL None 
Days 

 
  

 
 

643



 

25. Processing of Cash Advance (CA) /Reimbursement/Liquidation 
Cash Advance / Reimbursement / Liquidation processes 

 
Office or Division All colleges 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
● Travel Order 
● Approved letter of funding 
● Itinerary of the travel, Airline ticket, boarding passes, 

● Applicant  
Certificate of Appearance, and other documentary 
requirements 

● DV, OBR  
FEES TO PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
BE PAID TIME 

FOR CA: 1. Staff prepares DV and OBR. Applicant 
1. Submits travel order, itinerary    

of travel, airline tickets, and 2. Dean signs Dean 
other documentary  College of Social Sciences 
requirements. 3. Staff enters request in UIS  

  Cashier 
FOR Reimbursement/Liquidation: Cash Office 

4. Staff submits the signed DV 
1. Submits travel order, itinerary None 7 Working Days  

Budget, Accounting, and 
of travel, airline ticket, Vice Chancellor for 

then OVCA 
boarding pass, certificate of Administration 

 
appearance, photos, and other Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
documentary requirements 5. If all papers are complete, Administration 

Cash office staff prepares  
and releases the signed Chancellor 
check Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 7 Working Days  

 
 

644



 

26. Application for Merit Promotion 
Merit Promotion process for academic personnel 

 
Office or Division All colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
● Letter addressed to the UP President 
● Promotion instrument ● Applicant 
● Supporting documents  

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Submits a letter of 1. CAPC reviews and evaluates Applicant 

application for promotion application.  
  CAPC 

2. Self-evaluates based on 2. Submits to HRDO for AcPFC.  
the promotion instrument  Dean 

 3. AcPFC reviews, evaluates, and College of Social Sciences 

3. Prepares two sets of recommends  

supporting documents  None 45 Working Days AcPFC 

  
4. Chancellor recommends 

Chancellor 
4. If cross-ranking, prepares  

Office of the Chancellor 
justification for cross- 5. BOR if cross-ranking to  
ranking Associate Professor and Full Board of Regents (if cross-

Professor ranking from Associate 
Professor to Full Professor) 

TOTAL None 45 Working Days  
 
  

 
 

645



 

27. Application for Automatic Promotion 
Automatic Promotion process for academic personnel 

 
Office or Division All colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
● Letter addressed to the Chancellor thru channels 
● Proof of completion of MA/PhD degree  ● Applicant  
● Publications if request is for automatic promotion with merit 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1.  Submits a letter of 1. CAPC reviews and evaluates Applicant 

application for promotion application.  
together with supporting  CAPC 
documents 2. Submits to AcPFC for  

 evaluation. Dean 
 College of Social Sciences 

None 20 Working Days 
3. AcPFC reviews, evaluates, and  

recommends action to the AcPFC 

Chancellor.  

  
Chancellor 

4. Chancellor reviews and acts on 
Office of the Chancellor 

the recommendation. 
TOTAL None 20 Working Days  

 
  

 
 

646



 

28. Request for Limited Practice of Profession 
Current faculty's request for permission for limited practice of his/her profession.  

 
Office or Division All colleges 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
● LPP form  ● UIS 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Fills LPP form in UIS 1. Dean endorses Applicant 
   

2. VCAA recommends Dean 
 None 3 Working Days College of Social Sciences 

3. Chancellor approves or  

disapproves Chancellor 
Office of the Chancellor 

TOTAL None 3 Working Days  
 
  

 
 

647



 

29. Request for Course Offerings from Other Colleges 
Process for requesting of course offerings from another college. 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Government 
Who may avail Faculty 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Letter of request  ● Requester 
FEES TO BE PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
PAID TIME 

1. Department Chair (if 1. Dean of the servicing unit Department Chair or 
applicable) or Program receives the request and Program Coordinator 
Coordinator writes a letter identifies the faculty who is College of Social Sciences 
of request for a course available to handle the  
[endorsed by the Dean] requested course Dean 

None 7 Working Days 
addressed to the Dean of  College of Social Sciences 
the servicing unit. 2. Servicing unit replies in writing  
 the approval of the requests Dean 

2. The request includes the including changes made to the College that is servicing the unit 
proposed schedule. proposed schedule. 

TOTAL None 7 Working Days  
 
  

 
 

648



 

30. Request for Faculty from Other Colleges 
Request for acquiring the services of a faculty member from another college 

 
Office or Division All colleges 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
● Request letter ● Requester 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Department Chair (if 1. The concerned faculty is asked Department Chair or 

applicable) or Program for his/her availability Program Coordinator 
Coordinator writes a letter  College of Social Sciences 
of request for a faculty 2. Servicing unit, either through  
[endorsed by the Dean] the Dean or the faculty, replies Dean 
addressed to the Dean of in writing if the college can College of Social Sciences 
the concerned college. accommodate request or not None 3 Working Days  
   

2. The request includes the 3. If the servicing unit or college  
proposed schedule. cannot accommodate the Dean 

 request, then the requester College that is servicing the unit  

needs to look for their own 
lecturer 

TOTAL None 3 Working Days  
 
  

 
 

649



 

31. Request for Official Data/Information 
Process for a UP Faculty/student to request official data/information that is within the limits of the Data Privacy Act (RA 10173) 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
● Request letter ● Requester 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Submits a letter to the 1. The Dean, after legal Department Chair or 

Dean of the concerned clearances, forwards the Program Coordinator 
department or college request to the concerned College of Social Sciences 
about the request for the department/unit.  
specific data/document   
including the purpose of the 2. Depending on the nature of the Dean 
request.  request, the concerned College of Social Sciences 
 department/unit should be able None 3 Working Days  

2. Signs the request letter to to produce the requested  
signify receipt of the data/ data/document within a  
document. minimum of 3 days.  

  Dean 

3. The Dean releases the College that is servicing the unit  

data/document 
TOTAL None 3 Working Days  

 
  

 
 

650



 

32. Hiring Procedure of New Faculty (Full time and lecturer) 
Process of hiring new faculty and lecturer for the college 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty Applicant 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
● Application Letter Addressed to the Dean 
● CV ● Applicant  
● TOR  

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Applicant submits 1. College receives the applications. Applicant 

application documents   
to the Office of the 2. CAPC reviews the applications Dean 
Dean based on hiring criteria and College of Social Sciences 

 schedules interview and demo  
teaching of short-listed applicants. CAPC 

  

3. College informs non-shortlisted AcPFC 

applicants of the result of their  

application None 45 Working Days Chancellor 

 Office of the Chancellor 

4. College calls short-listed applicants 
for interview and demo teaching and 
submission of other requirements. 

 

5. CAPC conducts interviews, observes 
demo teaching, reviews other 
requirements, evaluates, and rates 

 
 

651



 

short listed applicants, and submits 
endorsement to AcPFC through 
HRDO. 

 

6. Informs the recommended faculty of 
the AcPFC action and for him/her to 
submit employment requirements. 

 

7. Informs faculty to report for duty 
upon issuance of his/her 
appointment from the Office of the 
Chancellor 

TOTAL None 45 Working Days  
  

 
 

652



 

33. Endorsement of Request for Use of Rooms/Facilities  
Processing of endorsement of requests for the use of UP Cebu Rooms / Facilities 

 
Office or Division All Colleges 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Requester 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
● Request letter ● Requester 
● Room Use Form ● CMO 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Requesting party secures 1. College staff checks Requester 

request for room use form availability of room/facility.  
from CMO and fills it up.  College Staff 
 2. Dean endorses request. College of Social Sciences 

None 1 Working Day 
2. Requesting party brings   

form to staff of college Dean 
where the room/facility College of Social Sciences 
requested is located. 

TOTAL None 1 Working Day  
 
  

 
 

653



 

FEEDBACK AND COMPLAINTS MECHANISM 
 

Email: css.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
Call: (032) 232 8187 local 203 
Write:  The Dean 

Where to send feedbacks/complaints 
College of Social Sciences 
University of the Philippines Cebu 
Gorordo Ave., Lahug Cebu City 

● All feedbacks/complaints will be received with utmost professionalism and 
courtesy. 

● Expect an acknowledgement from the staff three working days upon receipt of 
email. 

Action on feedbacks/complaints 
● The feedback/complaint will be reviewed and forwarded to the unit/person 

concerned for immediate and appropriate response or action. 

● The complainant will be informed of the response/action on their 
feedback/complaint. 

For more information about the Anti-Red Tape Act, please log on to: 
www.contactcenterngbayan.gov.ph 

Presidential Complaints Center: 8888 
  

 
 

654



 

MASTER OF EDUCATION PROGRAM (M.Ed. Program) 
 
EXTERNAL SERVICES 
 
1. Application to the Graduate Program 

The Master of Education Program accepts applicants for Biology, Chemistry, Physics, English, Filipino, Mathematics, and Social 
Studies specializations.  

 
Office or Division College of Social Sciences (M.Ed. Program) 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Undergraduate/Graduate students (2nd Courser) 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Application Form 

● 1 pc. 2x2 ID picture Office of the Master of Education (M.Ed.) Program 

● Photocopy of TOR 
FEES TO BE PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
PAID TIME 

1. Accomplishes application 1.1 Accepts and reviews 30 Minutes M.Ed. Staff 
form and submits it accomplished application form  Office of the Master of 
together with the Transcript and documents submitted   Education Program 
of Records (TOR) and 1 pc. 1.2 Issues processing fee payment M.Ed. Staff 

5 Minutes 
2x2 ID picture slip Office of the Master of 

 
PHP250.00 Education Program 

2.   Pays processing fee to 2.  Issues Official Receipt (O.R.) 10 Minutes Cashier’s Staff 
Cashier’s Office  Cash Office 

3.   Presents official receipt 3.  Copies Official Receipt (O.R.) M.Ed. Staff 
5 Minutes 

(O.R.) number to the applicant’s filled Office of the Master of 
 

up Application Form Education Program 

 
 

655



 

4.  Waits for the result of the 4.1Forwards application to the 30 Minutes M.Ed. Staff 
evaluation of application – faculty evaluator/s for  Office of the Master of 
will be informed thru text or assessment of credentials   Education Program 
call  4.2 Assesses / Evaluates the 1 Day M.Ed. Faculty Evaluator 

application and credentials   Office of the Master of 
submitted  Education Program 

4.3 Informs applicant of the M.Ed. Staff and Faculty 
assessment/evaluation results  Evaluator 

 10 Minutes 
Office of the Master of 

Education Program 
1 Day,  

TOTAL PHP250.00 1 Hour,  
30 Minutes 

 
  

 
 

656



 

2. Take the Master of Education Entrance Test (MEET) 
All qualified applicants after assessment and evaluation of their requirements will take the scheduled Master of Education Entrance 
Test which shall be administered by the Office of Students Affairs (Part 1) and the M.Ed. Program (Part 2). 
 

Office or Division College of Social Sciences (M.Ed. Program) 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Qualified applicants to the graduate program after evaluating their applications 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Test Permit Slip 
Office of the Master of Education (M.Ed.) Program 

● Ballpen and Pencil 
FEES TO BE PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
PAID TIME 

1. Proceeds to the M.Ed. 1. Issues Testing Fee Slip M.Ed. Staff 
5 Minutes 

Office to get the testing Office of the Master of 
 

fee slip Education Program 
2. Pays testing fee to 2. Issues Official Receipt 10 Minutes Cash Office Staff 

Cashier’s Office (O.R.)  Cash Office 
3.   Presents official receipt 3.  Copies Official Receipt M.Ed. Staff 

10 Minutes 
(O.R.) (O.R.) number to the Office of the Master of 

PHP600.00  
applicant’s filled up Education Program 

  
Application Form and 

 
issues Test Permit Slip 

4.  Takes the Master of 4.1The Office of Students OSA Staff 
1 Day 

Education Entrance Test Affairs (OSA) administers Office of Students’ Affairs 
 

(MEET) as per the the IQ exam while the M.Ed. Staff 
 

scheduled date in the M.Ed. staff administers the Office of the Master of 
 

ESSAY test Education Program 

 
 

657



 

approved M.Ed. Program 4.2 Checks the examinations OSA Examiner & Corrector (for 
academic calendar administered the IQ part) 

 Office of Students’ Affairs 
17 Days 

3 M.Ed. Faculty Members (for 
the Essay Part) 
M.Ed. Program 

5.  Gets the examination 5. Releases test results  M.Ed. Staff 
1 Day 

result as per scheduled Office of the Master of 
 

date of releasing Education Program 
19 Days,  

TOTAL PHP600.00 
25 Minutes 

 
  

 
 

658



 

3. Enrolment to the Graduate Program of Newly Qualified Applicants 
All passers of the Master of Education Entrance Test will have to accomplish all the needed requirements for their enrolment to the 
specific specialization they opted to enroll.  
 

Office or Division College of Social Sciences (M.Ed. Program) 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail MEET Passers 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Admission Slip 

● Hon. Dismissal from school last attended 

● Transcript of Records (TOR) 

● 4 pcs. 2x2 ID picture 

● Medical Lab. Results 

● Original NSO Birth Certificate ● Office of the Master of Education (M.Ed.) Program 

● Photocopy of NSO Marriage Cert. for female married 
applicants 

● Medical Certificate issued by the UPC Health Services 
Unit 

● Letters of Recommendation from former professors 
and/or immediate supervisors 

PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

TIME 
1. Qualified applicant submits 1. Checks requirements Tuition Fees: P HSU Staff 

and secures a medical and issues medical 600/unit 15 Minutes Health Services Unit 
certificate from UP clinic certificate  

 
 

659



 

2. Enrollee submits all a. Receives and checks (P 3,600 for 6 units, 20 Minutes OUR Staff 
required documents to the the documents which is the regular  Office of the University 
Office of the University load of an M.Ed.  Registrar 
Registrar (OUR) 2.2 Encodes the enrollee to student per semester OUR Staff 

20 Minutes 
SAIS website and issues  Office of the University 

 
his/her SAIS account. Miscellaneous Fees: P Registrar 

3. Enrollee proceeds back to 3.1 M.Ed. staff checks on 895 M.Ed. Staff 
the M.Ed. Office and the subjects to be taken 10 Minutes Office of the Master of 
presents the SAIS account and/or pre-registered to  Education Program 

make sure that they are  
correct 

3.2 M.Ed. program adviser M.Ed. Adviser 
20 Minutes 

checks/ advises and Office of the Master of 
 

calculates tuition and Education Program 
 

other fees 
4. Enrollee proceeds to the 4. Prints UP Form 5 and Cash Office Staff 

20 Minutes 
Cashier’s Office for issues Official Receipt Cash Office 

 
payment of tuition and other (O.R.) 

 
fees 

5. Goes to the staff of the CSS 5. Encodes in the SAIS CSS College Secretary 
College Secretary for final website, stamps 15 Minutes Office of the College 
encoding in the SAIS registered the UP Form  Secretary 
website and stamping 5 and releases the  
registered of his/her Form 5 student’s copy to the  

enrollee 
TOTAL Case-to-case basis 2 Hours  

 
 

  

 
 

660



 

4. Enrollment of Continuing Students to the Graduate Program 
The Master of Education Program prepares the subjects to be offered every trimester and plots the schedule for all continuing and 
returning students.  

Office or Division College of Social Sciences (M.Ed. Program) 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail 1st to 3rd year continuing and returning students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● The student who wishes to enroll will do the pre-registration on 
● Two printed copies of temporary Form 5A the scheduled date and prints two copies of his/her temporary 

Form 5A 
PROCESSING PERSON 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID 
TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Presents the printed copy of 1.1Checks on the subjects to M.Ed. Staff 
10 Minutes 

the Temp. Form 5 be taken and/or pre- Office of the Master of 
Laboratory Fees  

 registered to make sure Education Program 
  

 that they are correct  
Biology Majors: 

1.2M.Ed. program adviser 
PHP400.00 20 Minutes M.Ed. Adviser 

checks/ advises and 
   Office of the Master of 

calculates tuition and other 
Chemistry Majors:  Education Program 

fees 
PHP100.00 

2. Enrollee proceeds to the 2. Prints UP Form 5 and 20 Minutes 
 Cash Office Staff 

Cashier’s Office for payment issues Official Receipt  
Physics Majors: Cash Office 

of tuition and other fees (O.R.)  
PHP100.00 

3. Goes to the staff of the CSS 3.  Encodes in the SAIS 
 

College Secretary for final website, stamps 15 Minutes CSS College 
(Lab fees are additional 

encoding in the SAIS website registered the UP Form 5  Secretary 
fees on top of the 

and stamping registered of and releases the  Office of the College 
students’ regular load) 

his/her Form 5 student’s copy to the  Secretary 
enrollee 

1 Hour,   
TOTAL Case-to-case basis 

5 Minutes 

 
 

661



 

INTERNAL SERVICES 
 
1. Administer the Online Students Evaluation of Teachers (SET) 

The online Student Evaluation of Teachers (SET) is done every trimester to all M.Ed. Program classes. The students’ faculty 
evaluation results will be generated thru the website and printed. Copies of which will be submitted to the Chancellor, Dean and the 
each faculty will be given a copy of their evaluation results.  
 

Office or Division College of Social Sciences (M.Ed. Program) 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Currently enrolled M.Ed. students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Generated Username and Password for the Online SET ● Office of the Master of Education (M.Ed.) Program 
FEES TO PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
BE PAID TIME 

1. Officially enrolled 1.1Encodes the names of the faculty, M.Ed. Staff 
40 Minutes 

students get their subjects handled, and other information Office of the Master of 
 

generated username to the Online SET website Education Program 
and passwords 1.2 Gets the names of the officially enrolled 

1 Hour M.Ed. Staff 
 students from the SAIS website which is 

 Office of the Master of 
needed in generating the username and 

 Education 
passwords 

None 
1.3 Generates the student’s username and M.Ed. Staff 

 10 Minutes 
passwords for the Online SET Office of the Master of 

 
Education 

2. Logs in to the website 2.1 Assists and facilitates the students’ 
and do the Online evaluation of their teachers per subject. 2 Days M.Ed. Staff 
evaluation of their Makes sure that all students have done  Office of the Master of 
teachers for all the the online evaluation.  Education 
subjects taken 

 
 

662



 

 2.2 Prints the evaluation results and 
M.Ed. Staff 

distributes them to the concerned faculty, 
3 Hours Office of the Master of 

College Dean, and the Office of the 
Education 

Chancellor 
 3. Keeps copies of the SET in the M.Ed. M.Ed. Staff 

office for filing 10 Minutes Office of the Master of 
Education 

2 Days,  
TOTAL None 

5 Hours 
 

  

 
 

663



 

2. Preparation of Lecturer/s Renewal of Appointments 
The Office of the Master of Education (M.Ed.) Program prepares all the necessary documents needed for the hiring of new 
faculty/renewal of appointments of lecturers.  

Office or Division College of Social Sciences (M.Ed. Program) 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty Lecturers for Renewal 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
  

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Faculty Lecturer undergoes 1. Receives and thoroughly checks 

with all the medical the laboratory results and issues a 
laboratories as required for medical certificate 
his/her renewal of 

HSU Staff 
appointment and submits 30 Minutes 

Health Services Unit 
the results to UP clinic for 
issuance of medical 
certificate after thorough 
checking of the lab. results 

None 
2. The faculty then submits the 2.1 Receives the medical certificate 

 M.Ed. Staff 
medical certificate to the and  prepares the needed forms 

2 Days Office of the Master of 
staff of the M.Ed. program and other documents for the 

Education 
renewal of the faculty lecturer  

2.2 Writes and prepares the letter for M.Ed. Program Coordinator 
renewal and justifications. 2 Days Office of the Master of 

Education 
2.3 Submits the renewal documents to M.Ed. Staff 

HRDO to be included in the 30 Minutes Office of the Master of 
scheduled meeting Education 

2 Days,                
TOTAL None 

1 Hour 

 
 

664



 

 
FEEDBACK AND COMPLAINTS MECHANISM 

 
Email: med.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
Call: (032) 232 8187 local 204 
Write:  The M.Ed. Coordinator 

Where to send feedbacks/complaints Master of Education Program 
College of Social Sciences 
University of the Philippines Cebu 
Gorordo Ave., Lahug Cebu City 

● All feedbacks/complaints will be received with utmost professionalism and 
courtesy. 

● Expect an acknowledgement from the staff three working days upon receipt of 
email. 

Action on feedbacks/complaints 
● The feedback/complaint will be reviewed and forwarded to the unit/person 

concerned for immediate and appropriate response or action. 

● The complainant will be informed of the response/action on their 
feedback/complaint. 

For more information about the Anti-Red Tape Act, please log on to: 
www.contactcenterngbayan.gov.ph 

Presidential Complaints Center: 8888 
 
 
  

 
 

665



 

UP CEBU HIGH SCHOOL PROGRAM 
 
EXTERNAL SERVICES 
 
1. Application to the Junior and Senior High Schools 

UP High School Cebu is envisioned to be the center of excellence in basic education for instruction, research, and extension that helps 
build a just and humane society through quality education and democratized access. 

 
Office or Division College of Social Sciences (High School Program) 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Grade 6 graduates, Grade 10 completers 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Application Form ● Office of the High School Principal 
FEES TO BE PERSON 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME 
PAID RESPONSIBLE 

1. Accomplishes application 1. Office Clerk accepts application Office staff 
guidelines form 15 Minutes Office of the High 

School Program 
2. Submits complete 2. Admission Committee evaluates Application Committee 

requirements credentials submitted 15 Minutes Office of the High 
School Program 

3. Fills up application form 3. Reviews application form  PHP300.00 15 Minutes 
4. Pays processing fees at the 4. Conducts individual interview of 

30 Minutes 
Cashier’s office) applicants. Office staff 

5. Qualified applicants claims 5. Approves qualified applicants. Office of the High 
test permits   5 Minutes School Program 

6. Releases test permits. 
6. Gets Test Results 7. Releases Test Results 5 Minutes 

1 Hour,                          
TOTAL PHP300.00 

25 Minutes 
 

 

666



 

2. Admission of Qualified Applicants to Junior and Senior High 
Only applicants who meet the requirements and passed the High School entrance exam will be admitted to the program. 

 
Office or Division College of Social Sciences (High School Program) 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Grade 6 graduates, Grade 10 completers 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Admission Form ● Office of the High School Principal 
FEES TO BE PROCESSING 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
PAID TIME 

1. Accomplishes requirements 1. Office staff accepts required Office Staff 
for enrollment documents Office of the High School 

(medical, report card, etc.) Program 
2. Submits all required 2. Office staff evaluates H.S. Faculty 

credentials credentials submitted Office of the Faculty 
None 4 Hours 

3. Fills out the enrollment form 3. Issues enrollment forms Office Staff 
Office of the High School 

Program 
4. Follows enrollment 4. Accepts the official Homeroom Adviser 

procedures enrollment form Year level Classroom 
TOTAL None 4 Hours  

 

 
 

667



 

INTERNAL SERVICES 
 
1. Administer the Students Evaluation of Teachers (SET) 

The Student Evaluation of Teachers (SET) is done every semester to all High School classes. The students’ faculty evaluation results 
will be encoded and tallied to get the average rating. Copies of which will be submitted to the Chancellor, Dean and each faculty will 
be given a copy of their evaluation results.  
 

Office or Division College of Social Sciences (High School Program) 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Currently enrolled High School students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

● Printed copy of the SET ● Office of the High School Program 
FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON 

CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION 
BE PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Officially enrolled 1.1Encodes the names of the faculty, subjects 
30 Minutes 

students gets their handled, and other information  
own copy 1.2 Distributes copies of SET to the teachers in-

10 Minutes 
charge of evaluation 

1.3 Encoding of Student’s responses 20 Hours 
2. Encoding of the Final 2.1 Assists and facilitates the students’ evaluation 30 Minutes 

Rating of their teachers per subject. Makes sure that all  High School Staff 
None 

students have done the evaluation. 5 Minutes Office of the High 
 

 2.2 Prints the evaluation results and distributes School Program 
them to the concerned faculty, College Dean, 30 Minutes 
and the Office of the Chancellor 

3. Checking all entries of 3.1 Keeps copies of the SET in the High School 
the SET of their office for filing 

10 Minutes 
teachers for all the 
subjects taken 

2 Days,              
TOTAL None 

2 Hours, 
 

 

668



 

15 Minutes 
FEEDBACK AND COMPLAINTS MECHANISM 

 
Email: uphigh.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
Call: (032) 232 8187 local 301 
Write:  The Principal 

Where to send feedbacks/complaints UP High School Cebu 
College of Social Sciences 
University of the Philippines Cebu 
Gorordo Ave., Lahug Cebu City 

● All feedbacks/complaints will be received with utmost professionalism and 
courtesy. 

● Expect an acknowledgement from the staff three working days upon receipt of 
email. 

Action on feedbacks/complaints 
● The feedback/complaint will be reviewed and forwarded to the unit/person 

concerned for immediate and appropriate response or action. 

● The complainant will be informed of the response/action on their 
feedback/complaint. 

For more information about the Anti-Red Tape Act, please log on to: 
www.contactcenterngbayan.gov.ph 

Presidential Complaints Center: 8888 
 
 
 
  

 
 

669



 

 
SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT (SOM) 

 
EXTERNAL SERVICES 
 
1. ENDORSEMENT OF REQUEST FOR THE USE OF ROOMS / FACILITIES 
Processing of endorsement of requests for the use of UP Cebu Rooms / Facilities 
 
Office of Division All Colleges 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Requester 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Request Letter Requestor 
Room Use Form (online) Campus Maintenance Office (CMO) upcebu.edu.ph website 

PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID 

TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Fills up the Room Use    

 
Form. 

2. Submits the form to the 2.1 College Staff checks the  College Staff 
College Staff of the college availability of room/facility.  30 Minutes College 
where the room/facility    
requested is located. 2.2 Dean endorses the request. 30 Minutes Dean 

College 
3.  Student pays a fee to the  If UP students rent for 30 Minutes   

Cashier academic reasons - (if payment is 
free from 8 AM to 5 required) 
PM.   

  
If UP students renting  
for non-academic  
reasons - free use of  
room from 8 AM to 5  

 651 

670



 

PM but pay for the  
use of the aircon unit  
(P50/unit/hr)  

  
If outsiders, SoM  
room rental as 30 Minutes 
follows:  
Regular Room with 2  
ACU = P300/hr  
Small room with 2  
ACU = P250/hr  
 
Small room with 1 
ACU = P200/hr 
Multimedia Projector 
= P150/hr 
Sound System 
P100/hr 

TOTAL  2 Hours  
 

 652 

671



 

 
2. HIRING OF NEW FACULTY 
Process of hiring new faculty for the college. 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail New Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Application Letter (1 original) Applicant 
Curriculum Vitae (1 original)  
Teaching Demo (1 electronic)  
Justification (1 original, 1 photocopy)  
Transcript of Records (1 photocopy)  
Diploma (1 photocopy)  
Other requirements (2 original each) Human Resource Department Office (HRDO) 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Waits for schedule for 1. The Dean schedules the applicant for 1 Day Dean 

teaching demo a Teaching Demo College 
2. Teaching demo and 2.1 The Dean, College Academic 1 Day Dean 

panel interview Program Committee and Faculty College 
members evaluates the applicant  
using the Hiring of New Faculty College Academic Program 
Evaluation Form from HRDO Committee (CAPC) 

None College 
 2.2 If an applicant is qualified, the Dean 1 Day Dean 

prepares the endorsement letter & College 
other necessary documents to be  
signed by the Dean & CAPC   CAPC 
 College 
Members: 
Cover Letter, Justification of the newly 

 653 

672



 

hired Faculty with attached teaching 
demo, Faculty Loading, Application 
Letter, CV, TOR, Diploma & other 
requirements c/o HRDO 

 2.3 College Staff informs the new hire to 1 Day College Staff 
prepare other documentation as College 
required by the HRDO.  

Head 
Human Resource 
Department Office 

3. Submits the 3. HRDO Staff accepts the 1 Day HRDO Staff 
requirements to the requirements. Human Resource 
HRDO Department Office 

TOTAL None 5 Days  
 
 

 654 

673



 

 
3. HIRING PROCEDURE OF NEW FACULTY (FULL TIME AND LECTURER) 
Process of hiring new faculty/lecturer for the college. 
 

Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty Applicant 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Application Letter addressed to the Dean (1 original) Applicant 
Curriculum Vitae (1 original) 
Transcript of Records (1 photocopy) 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Submits application 1.1 Dean receives the applications. 1 Day Dean 

documents to the Office   College 
of the Dean 1.2 CAPC reviews the applications based 1 Day  

on hiring criteria and schedules  College Academic Program 
interviews and demo teaching of  Committee (CAPC) 
short-listed applicants.  College 
   

1.3 College informs non-shortlisted 1 Day  
applicants of the result of their  Staff 
application None  College 
   

1.4 College calls short-listed applicants 3 Days  
for interview and demo teaching and  Staff 
submission of other requirements.  College 
   

1.5 CAPC conducts interviews, observe 7 Days  
demo teaching, review other  College Academic Program 
requirements, evaluate and rate short  Committee (CAPC) 
listed applicants, and submit  College 

 655 

674



 

endorsement to APFC through   
HRDO.   

   
1.6 HRDO informs the college when the  Staff 

APFC will convene to discuss the 5 Days Human Resource 
applications.  Development Office 

   
1.7 APFC forwards their recommendation  Academic Personnel 

to the Chancellor. 1 Day Fellowship Committee 
  (APFC) 
1.8 College Staff informs the   

recommended faculty of the decision 1 Day  
of the Chancellor. Chancellor 

 Office of the Chancellor 
1.9 College Staff informs faculty to  

submit necessary documents to the Staff 
HRDO College 

2.  Submit all required 2.1 HRDO receives all documents 1 Day Staff 
documents (assume   Human Resource 
within 7 days) 2.2.HRDO issues notice of appointment 1 Day Development Office 

   
2.3 College staff informs the new faculty   Chancellor 

when to report for duty 1 Day Office of the Chancellor 
  

Staff 
College 

TOTAL None 30 Days  
 

 656 

675



 

 
4. SUGGESTION FROM OTHER STAKEHOLDERS 
Stakeholders who want to submit suggestions for the college. 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Non-student Stakeholders 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Email account Applicant 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Emails suggestions to 1.1 College Staff acknowledges the 1 Day College Staff 

som.upcebu@up.edu.ph receipt of email.  College 
    
 1.2 College Staff forwards the email to 5 Minutes  
 the concerned party   
  

  
 None  

1.3 Concerned party replies through the 2 Days 
 Concerned party 

College Staff.  
  
    

 1.4 College Staff replies to the email with 5 Minutes College Staff 
the response of the concerned party College 
within the day. 

TOTAL None 3 Days  
 

 657 

676



 

 
INTERNAL SERVICES 
 
1. APPLICATION FOR AUTHORITY TO TRAVEL ABROAD 

Application process for UP employees to apply for authority to travel abroad 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail UP Faculty and Staff 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
A request letter addressed to the Chancellor (1 original) Requestor 
UIS account Information Technology Center (ITC) 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Writes a letter addressed to the 1.1 CAPC endorses the 

CAPC 
Chancellor through channels. If request VCAA endorse 1 Hour 

College 
academic/administrative work is the letter. 
going to be affected, indicate 1.2 Dean endorses the request Dean 

1 Hour 
your plan to cover or make up for College 
missed classes and 1.3 VCAA endorses the Vice-Chancellor for Academic 
administrative work.  request Affairs 

3 Hours 
None Office of the Vice-Chancellor 

for Academic Affairs 
1.4 Once approved, the Office 1 Day 

of the Chancellor issues Chancellor 
the Authority to Travel Office of the Chancellor 
Abroad 

2. Encodes the approved request in   
Requester 

UIS: International Travel 
TOTAL None 2 Days  

 658 

677



 

 
2. APPLICATION FOR FACULTY CLEARANCE (University Clearance) 
Clearance process for Academic Personnel 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Academic Personnel 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Clearance Form (x copies) Human Resource Department Office (HRDO) 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Fills up the 1.1 Program Adviser/Coordinator, College 1 Day Program Adviser 

clearance form and Secretary, and Dean signs the form  College 
have it signed by    
concerned academic 1.2 Administrative Heads signs the form. 3 Days College Secretary 
and administrative These are the following offices: Office of the College Secretary 
heads -Library  

-Financial/Accounting Dean 
-Property (SPMO) College 
-Cash Office  

None 
-Research (CVSC) Administrative Heads 
-Health Services Unit Respective Office 
-HRDO  
-UP Cooperative Chancellor 
-Legal Office Office of the Chancellor 
-OUR for Academic responsibilities 
-Vice-Chancellor for Administration 
-VIce-Chancellor for Academic Affairs 
-Chancellor 

TOTAL None 4 Days  
 

 659 

678



 

 
3. APPLICATION FOR FACULTY GRANT 

Grant Application process for faculty 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Faculty Grant Form College Administrative Staff 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Waits for the call for Faculty CVSC makes the announcement  Applicant 

Grant 
2. Submits the form with Dean endorses the application 30 Minutes 

supporting documents to Dean 
the Dean for endorsement 

2. Submits the form to CVSC 2.1 Staff submits CVSC for review 4 Days College Staff 
through the office staff and endorsement  CVSC Director 
    

2.2 After CVSC endorses, Staff 1 Day Vice-Chancellor for Academic 
brings the paper to the Vice-  Affairs 
Chancellor for Academic Affairs None   
then to the Chancellor for their  Chancellor 
signature  Office of the Chancellor 

   
2.3 CVSC informs college that the 1 Day CVSC 

grant was approved (or not  College Staff 
approved)   

   
2.4 Once grant is approved, CVSC 15 Days Legal Office 

prepares the contract 
3.  Faculty signs the contract 3.1 Staff forwards the contract to the 10 Minutes Staff 

 660 

679



 

and returns the contract to Chancellor.  College 
the college staff (assume 1    
day) 3.2 Once signed, the contract will be 5 Days Chancellor 

notarized  Office of the Chancellor 
   
3.3 Gives notarized contract back to 10 Minutes Staff 

the college  Legal Office 
   
3.4 OVCAA staff prepares the DV, 3 Days Staff 

OBR, with the signed contract for College 
fund release.  

Staff 
Office of the Vice Chancellor 

for Administration 
4. Applicant picks up the check   

Applicant 
from the Cash Office 

TOTAL None 30 Days  
 

 661 

680



 

 
4. APPLICATION FOR LEAVE (UP Cebu-HRDO Form 6a) 

Leave application for academic personnel 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
  

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Fills up the form and 1.1 College Staff receives it and 1 Hour College Staff 

submits it to the College forwards it to the Dean for the  College 
Staff for the Dean's approval of the request  10 Minutes  
approval  Dean 

1.2 Submits to HRDO. None College 
 

HRDO staff 
Human Resource 

Development Office 
TOTAL None 1 Hour,              

10 Minutes 
 

 662 

681



 

 
5. APPLICATION FOR LEAVE WITHOUT PAY 
Leave without pay application for academic personnel 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Letter Request  
Leave Form College Staff 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Submits a letter 1.1 CAPC recommends, and Dean  1 Day CAPC 

addressed to the endorses the request.    College 
Chancellor, through     
channels, three (3)    Dean 
months before the    College 
affected semester.  None   
 1.2 Forwards to the OVCAA for 1 Day Vice-Chancellor for 

2.  Fills up the Leave Form. endorsement for approval.  Academic Affairs 
   Office of the Vice-Chancellor 

  for Academic Affairs 
   
1.3 Chancellor approves the request. 2 Days Chancellor 

Office of the Chancellor 
TOTAL None 4 Days  

 

 663 

682



 

 
6. APPLICATION FOR LOCAL TRAVEL ORDER (non-official) 

Local Travel Order Application process 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
UIS account uis.up.edu.ph 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Fills up University 1.1 Forwards request to the Dean for 1 Day Dean 

Information System (UIS) endorsement  College 
   
1.2 Forwards to the Chancellor for 1 Day Chancellor 

approval Office of the Chancellor 
None 

2. Prints approved request 2.1 Staff receives the printed approval  Staff 
from University and files it College 
Information System (UIS) 
and submits to the 
college staff  

TOTAL None 2 Days  
 

 664 

683



 

 
7. APPLICATION FOR MERIT PROMOTION 
Merit Promotion process for academic personnel 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Letter addressed to the UP President, Promotion Instrument/s,  
Supporting Document 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
Submits a letter of 1.1 CAPC reviews and evaluates the 5 Days CAPC 
application for promotion. application.  College 
The following are the    
attachments:  1.2 Submits to HRDO for APFC (wait 15 Days HRDO 
 for APFC meeting).   
1.  Self-evaluation based  10 Days APFC 

on the promotion 1.3 APFC reviews, evaluates and  Office of the Vice-Chancellor for 
None 

instrument. recommends 10 Days Academic Affairs 
2.  Two sets of supporting    

documents. 1.4 Chancellor recommends 20 Days Chancellor 
3.  If cross-ranking,  Office of the Chancellor 

prepare a justification 1.5 BOR if cross-ranking to Association  
for cross-ranking. Professor and Full Professor Board of Regents (if cross-

ranking) 
TOTAL None 60 Days  

 

 665 

684



 

 
8. APPLICATION FOR RESEARCH GRANT 

Application for faculty to apply for a research grant through the Central Visayas Studies Center (CVSC) 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Research Grant Form (1 copy) College Staff 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Waits for the call for a CVSC makes the announcement    

research grant 

2. Writes a letter and attach    
the CVSC research Applicant 
template 

3. Submits to the Dean for 3.1 Dean endorses the form.  30 Minutes Dean 
endorsement   College 

3.2 College Staff forwards it to   
CVSC 15 Minutes College Staff 
  College 

3.3 CVSC sends the research   
document out for peer review 20 Days CVSC Staff 
  CVSC 

3.4 CVSC returns the proposal to 1 Day 
the faculty for revisions 

4. Respond to the reviewer's 4.1 CVSC endorses the revised  1 Day CVSC Staff 
comments and submit a proposal to VCAA.  CVSC 
revised proposal to CVSC.  1 Day  
(assume 10 days) 4.2 VCAA endorses the proposal  Vice-Chancellor for Academic 

for Chancellor's approval.  Affairs (VCAA) 

 666 

685



 

   
4.3 CVSC processes the research 10 Days Staff 

contract and returns it to faculty Legal Office 
for signature  

Chancellor 
Office of the Chancellor 

 
CVSC Staff 

CVSC 
5.  Faculty signs the contract 5.1 Staff forwards the contract to  10 Minutes Staff 

and returns the contract to the Chancellor.  College 
the college staff (assume 1    
day) 5.2 Once signed, the contract will 5 Days Chancellor 

be notarized  Office of the Chancellor 
   
5.3 Gives notarized contract back 10 Minutes Staff 

to the college  College 
   
5.4 OVCAA staff prepares the DV, 3 Days staff 

OBR, with the signed contract Office of the Vice Chancellor for 
for fund release. Academic Affairs 

6.  Pick up the check   1 Day Cashier's Office 
 

Applicant 
TOTAL None 43 Days  

 
 

 667 

686



 

 
9. APPLICATION FOR RESEARCH LOAD CREDIT 

Research Load Credit (RLC) Application process for academic personnel 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Letter of Request (1 copy) Self 
Research Proposal (1 copy)  
Certification of funding (if applicable, 1 copy) 

FEES TO PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PROCESSING TIME 

BE PAID RESPONSIBLE 
1. Submits a letter addressed 1.1 CAPC reviews and recommends  1 Day CAPC 

to the Chancellor (through the application.  College 
channels), 3 months prior to  30 Minutes  
the affected semester. Also 1.2 Dean endorses the application. Dean 
submit the certification of College 
funding (if applicable) 

 College Staff forwards applications to  2 Days CVSC Staff 
CVSC for endorsement. CVSC 

 If three (3) units only, Dean approves  30 Minutes Dean 
the application.   College 
 20 Days (if more than 3  
If more than three units, the request units) HRDO staff 
goes to the HRDO and APFC for APFC  
recommendation and then to the VCAA 
Chancellor for approval. Chancellor 

Office of the 
Chancellor 

TOTAL None 4 Days (if 3 units)  
25 Days (if more than 3 

units) 

 668 

687



 

 
10. APPLICATION FOR STUDY LEAVE / FELLOWSHIP 
Study Leave application process for academic personnel 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Letter of Request (1 copy) Personal 
Leave form (1 copy) College Staff 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Submits letter addressed 1.1 CAPC endorses the form for None 1 Day CAPC 

to the Chancellor, approval.  College 
through channels, one    
(1) semester before the 1.2 Dean endorses form for approval 30 Minutes Dean 
affected semester and fill   College 
up the leave form 1.3 College Staff forwards the form to 30 Minutes  
 HRDO for APFC deliberation.  College Staff 

  College 
   
  HRDO staff 
1.4 College Staff forwards the form to 15 Days  

HRDO for APFC deliberation.   
Waits for the schedule.  APFC / Vice-Chancellor for 
  Academic Affairs (VCAA) 

1.5 APFC / VCAA endorses the form 1 Day  
for approval.  HRDO 
   

  Vice-Chancellor for Academic 
  Affairs (VCAA) 
   

 669 

688



 

1.6 The Chancellor approves 1 Day Chancellor 
requests. Office of the Chancellor 
  

1.7 College Staff informs the faculty College Staff 
once the request is approved. College 

TOTAL  20 Days  
 

 670 

689



 

 
11. Application for Tenure 
Tenure application process for academic personnel 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Letter of application for tenure (1 copy) Self 
Supporting Documents (publication, SET, etc. – 1 copy)  
 College Staff 
Evaluation Form (1 copy) 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Submits a letter of 1.1 Dean sends the letter, together with None 2 Hours Dean 

application for tenure the tenure evaluation form and  College 
to the Dean of the supporting documents, to the CAPC   
College with for evaluation.   
supporting  1 Day  
documents. 1.2 If all papers are complete, CAPC   

endorses the application for  CAPC 
evaluation by the tenured faculty of  College 
the college. 3 Days lead  
 time  

1.3 Dean calls a meeting with the tenured   
faculty to evaluate the application and   
attachments. 1 Day Dean 
   

1.4 Tenured faculty endorses based on   
the application, tenure evaluation 3 Days  
form, and other supporting  Tenured Faculty 
documents.   

 671 

690



 

   
1.5 Dean sends a Recommendation of   

tenured Faculty, together with all   

supporting documents, to HRDO for   

APFC evaluation and endorsement. 15 Days Dean 

  HRDO Staff 

1.6 Makes the cover letter indicating the  HRDO 

decision of the majority on the tenure 1 Day  

application.   

   

1.7 Waits for the APFC schedule. APFC   

reviews the recommendation in step 1 Day  

1.5 and acts on the recommendation.   

  APFC 

1.8 APFC sends the recommendation to Office of the Vice-Chancellor 

the Chancellor for final action on the for Academic Affairs 

application for tenure.  

  

1.9 The Chancellor acts on the  

recommendation.  Chancellor 

 Office of the Chancellor 

1.10 If recommended, sends the  

application to the BOR for approval. Board of Regents 
Office of the Secretary of the 

University 
TOTAL None 25 Days  

 
 

 672 

691



 

 
12. APPLICATION TO MBA BRIDGE COURSE PROGRAM 
MBA Bridge Course Program application for MPAT passers who have been recommended to take additional courses prior to 
enrollment to the MBA Program 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail MBA Program Admission test passers 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Acceptance Letter College or MBA Staff 
In cases where  
Signed Authorization letter (1 copy) 
Copy of Valid ID (1 photocopy) 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Presents the MBA Staff fills out the payment slip None 10 Minutes MBA Staff 

acceptance letter with the amount required and gives it College 
to the enrollee. 

2. Pays all required courses Cash office staff receives payment PHP 11,000 5 Minutes Cashier 
and signs the payment slip, and 7,400 for all Cash Office 
issues an OR courses 

With Case 
Analysis, PHP 

9,400 
3. Returns the payment slip to MBA Staff receives the payment slip   MBA Staff 

the SoM staff with the College 
signature of the cash office 

TOTAL PHP 11,000 15 Minutes  
PHP 9,400 

 

 673 

692



 

 
13. Application to MBA Comprehensive Exam 

MBA Comprehensive Exam application process for graduating MBA students 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail MBA Students who have completed their required courses with GWA of 2.000 or better 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Application Form for Comprehensive Exam (1 copy) School of Management Office 
  
Certificate of GWA (1 copy) Office of the College Secretary 
UP Form 5 (1 copy)  
 Office of the Vice-Chancellor for Administration (OVCA) 
Events Form (1 copy)  

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Requests for GWA OCS Staff issues a certificate of GWA PHP 50 3 Days OCS Staff 

Office of the College 
Secretary 

2. Submits an Application for 1.1 MBA Staff receives the documents  5 Minutes MBA Staff 
Comprehensive Exam  College 
together with Certificate of 1.2 MBA Staff fills out the payment slip 
GWA with the amount required. 

3. Pays for the Cash office staff receives the payment PHP 200 10 Minutes Cash Office Staff 
Comprehensive Exam Cash Office 

Before the Comprehensive Exam 
4. Provides two (2) USB MBA Staff receives the USB drives and  1 Day Dean 

drives two (2) weeks assigns codes to it for usage on the College 
before the exam date exam date 

5. Block Representative MBA Staff receives the letter request  1 Day Program Coordinator 
writes a letter requesting and have the Program Coordinator and College 
for the use of the Dean endorse the letter.  

 674 

693



 

computer laboratory and  Dean 
technical assistance  College 
 MBA Staff forwards it to the concerned  
Attachment: MBA Staff 
OVCA Events form to  College 

6. Pays the required amount Cash office staff receives payment PHP 450 / hour; 10 Minutes Cash Office Staff 
up to PHP Cash Office 
5,850.00 

 
7. Pays the technical Staff  Technical Staff's  Dean 

their honorarium hourly rate College 
8. Block representative    Block Representative 

sends a request to VECO 
for no power interruption 
on the exam date 

TOTAL GWA - 3 Days  
PHP50.00 
 
Comprehensive 
Exam – 
PHP200.00 
 
Lab use – 
PHP450/hr up 
to PHP5,850.00 
+ Tech Staff 
hourly rate 

 

 675 

694



 

 
14. APPLICATION TO MBA PROGRAM 

MBA Program application process for aspiring applicants 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Bachelor's degree holder with at least two (2) years of work experience 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. Application Forms School of Management or online 
2. Transcript of Records (1 scanned copy sent via email) (http://som.upcebu.edu.ph/master-of-business-
3. Letter of Recommendation from two (2) former professors and/or administration/mba-applicant-notice/) 

immediate supervisors (1 copy from each)  
4. Certificate of Employment / Business Permit (1 copy / 1 photocopy for  

Business Permit) 
5. 2x2 ID Photo, white background (2 copies) 
6. GMAT and TOEFL scores for overseas applicants  

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Submits a Transcript of MBA Staff evaluates the TOR None 1 Hour 

Records (TOR) for   
evaluation through email If the applicant is qualified, MBA Staff 1 Hour 

sends an email with the list of 
requirements; else MBA Staff sends an MBA Staff 
email for the applicant to apply next time College 
with the initial requirements  

2. Submits all MPAT MBA Staff receives the requirements  1 Hour 
requirements  

MBA Staff sends emails to applicants with 
details for the online payment 

3. Pays the MPAT fee Cash office staff receives payment and PHP700.00  Cash Office Staff 
issues OR for the MPAT fee  Cash Office 
  

 676 

695



 

Applicant emails the Proof of Payment to  
mba.upcebu@up.edu.ph  
  
MBA Staff uploads and encodes payment      4minutes 
details based on the Proof of Payment  
  
Cash Office staff verifies payments and 24 hours 
issues OR during working 

hours 
TOTAL PHP700.00 3 Hours – 30  

hours 
 

 677 

696



 

 
15. ASSIST STUDENTS IN THE USE OF SOM FACILITIES 

Process to procure assistance from the college in the use of SOM facilities 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail UP Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Reservation Form SoM Online Room Reservation School of Management Admin Office 

https://arsl.at/PBDYMen/ 
Room Reservations Link 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Fills up the Reservation College Staff checks the availability of the None 2 Minutes College Staff 

Form and submits to the requested room  College 
College Staff.   

If for academic use PHP 50 / unit x no. 
 of hours 
If for non-academic usage and will use  
the air-conditioning unit PHP 150 / unit x 
 no. of hours 
LCD Projector use 

2. Gets an approval of the Dean approves the request  5 2 Minutes Dean 
Dean College 

3. Submits the approved Cash office staff receives payment  5 Minutes Cash Office Staff 
Reservation Form to the Cash Office 
Cashier and pay the fees 

4. Submits the paid form to College Staff receives the form and  2 Minutes College Staff 
the College Staff confirms the reservation of the Room College 

TOTAL Academic Use - 14 12 Minutes  
PHP 50/unit x no. 
of hours 

 678 

697



 

 
Non-academic use 
- PHP 150 / unit x 
no. of hours 

 

 679 

698



 

 
16. CONSULTATION SERVICES 

Process for procuring consultations with faculty 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail UP Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Request for Appointment Faculty, College Staff 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Requests for an 1.1 College Staff receives the request None 30 Minutes College Staff 

appointment through the and contacts the concerned Faculty  College 
College Staff  10 Minutes  

1.2 Faculty gives consent  Faculty 
 10 Minutes College 
1.3 College Staff informs the student  

TOTAL None 50 Minutes  
 

 680 

699



 

 
17. REQUESTING FOR COURSE OFFERINGS 
Process for requesting of course offerings from another college. 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Letter of Request (1 original copy) Program Coordinator of requesting college 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. The Program Coordinator Dean of the servicing unit receives the None 3 Days Dean 

writes a letter of request request and identifies the faculty who  College of servicing unit 
for a course addressed to is available to handle the requested   
the Dean of the servicing course.  
unit.  3 Days 
 Servicing unit replies in writing the 
The request includes the approval of the requests, including 
proposed schedule changes made to the proposed 

schedule. 
TOTAL None 6 Days  

 

 681 

700



 

 
18. PREPARATION OF LECTURER'S MONTHLY SALARY 

Process of preparation of lecturer's monthly salary by the assigned Staff 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Lecturer 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Daily Time Record (DTR) School of Management 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Submits your signed 1.1  College staff prepares  2 3 Days College Staff 

DTR to the College Staff Disbursement Voucher (DV),  College 
Obligation Request & Status   
(OBR), sign-in to UIS for  Budget Staff 
Disbursement Voucher Number,  Budget Office 
and submit them to the Budget   
Office (with notice of appointment  Accounting Staff 
in the first month).  Accounting Office 
  
Documents must have a DTS Cash Office Staff 
DRS – Data Routing Slip sticker. Cash Office 

 
1.2 Processing and signing of checks.  3 Days Dean 

For checks above PHP 100,000, College 
the Chancellor's signature is  
required. Vice-Chancellor for 

Administration 
Office of the Vice-Chancellor for 

Administration 
 

Chancellor 

 682 

701



 

Office of the Chancellor 
1.3 When the check is available, None 10 Minutes College Staff 

College Staff informs the lecturer College 
to pick up the check 

2. Picks up the Check at the   10 Minutes Cash Office Staff 
Cash Office Cash Office 

TOTAL   5 6 Days,          
20 Minutes 

 

 683 

702



 

 
19. PROCESSING OF CASH ADVANCE (CA) /REIMBURSEMENT/LIQUIDATION 

Cash Advance / Reimbursement / Liquidation processes 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1.   Travel Order (1 original) Applicant (Faculty / Admin Staff) 
2. Itinerary of the Travel (1 original, 2 photocopies)  
3. Airline Ticket (1 photocopy)  
4. Boarding Passes (1 photocopy)  
5. Certificate of Appearance and other documentary requirements  

(1 original)  
6. Approved Letter of Funding (1 original, 2 photocopies) College Staff 
7. Disbursement Voucher (DV, 1 original, 2 photocopies) 
8. Obligation Request (OBR, 1 original, 2 photocopies) 
9. Certificate of Travel Completed (1 original, 2 photocopies) 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
For Cash Advance: College Staff prepares the Itinerary None 30 Minutes College Staff 
Submits the travel order, the of Travel, DV, and OBR.  College 
itinerary of travel, airline  30 Minutes  
tickets, and other documentary College Staff enters request in  Dean 
requirements. University Information System  College 
 (UIS) for Disbursement Voucher   
 number 5 Minutes Budget Staff 
   Budget Office 
 Dean signs the Itinerary of Travel, 2 Days   
 DV, and OBR.  Accounting Staff 
   Accounting Office 
 Submits the signed Itinerary of   

 684 

703



 

 Travel, DV & ObR to Budget, 30 Minutes Vice-Chancellor for 
 Accounting, and then OVCA  Administration 
   Office of the Vice-Chancellor for 
 If all documents are complete, the 2 Hours Administration 
 Cash office prepares and releases   
For CA Liquidation: the signed check  Cash Office Staff 
Submits the travel order,  30 Minutes Cash Office 
itinerary of travel, airline ticket, College Staff prepares the  
boarding pass, certificate of Liquidation Report, Itinerary Travel,  
appearance, photos, and other Certificate of Travel Completed  
documentary requirements and input to the University 15 Minutes 
 Information System (UIS) all  
 expenses incurred during travel  
   
 The traveler & Dean signs the 2 Hours 
 Liquidation Report, Certificate of  
 Travel Completed and Itinerary of  
 Travel.  
   
 Submits signed documents  
For CA Reimbursement: together with the supporting  
 documents to the Accounting office 2 days 
 for checking and approval to the 

Chief Accountant 
 
College staff prepares 
Disbursement Voucher & 
Obligation Request 
 
Dean signs the Disbursement 
Voucher & Obligation Request 
 
College Staff submits the DV, 
ObR, and attaches the approved 

 685 

704



 

documents by the Chief 
Accountant such as CA Liquidation 
Report, Itinerary Travel, Certificate 
of Travel Completed, and other 
necessary documents to the 
Budget office, Accounting, OVCA 
& Cash office. 
 

TOTAL None 6 Days  
 

 686 

705



 

 
20. RENEWAL OF APPOINTMENT OF FACULTY 
Process of Renewal of a faculty's appointment for the next academic term/s 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Letter Request (1 original) Requesting Program Coordinator / Department Chair 
  
SET (1 original) College Staff 
Justification for Renewal (1 original) 
Annual Academic Loading (1 original) 

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON RESPONSIBLE 
BE PAID TIME 

1. Writes a letter to the 1.1 College Staff receives the documents None 1 Day College Staff 
Chancellor through for endorsement by the CAPC.  College 
channels two (2) months    
before the term starts. CAPC endorses the request and 20 Days AcPFC 
 forwards the letter and attachments to  Office of the Vice-
Attaches the following the HRDO for APFC review and  Chancellor for Academic 
documents: Justification of endorsement. (wait for the schedule of  Affairs (OVCAA) 
Renewal with CAPC APFC)  
endorsement, recent SET 1.2 APFC forwards the request to the  3 Days Chancellor 
of Faculty, Annual Chancellor for approval Office of the Chancellor 
Academic Loading of 
Faculty 

TOTAL None 24 Days  
 

 687 

706



 

 
21. RENEWAL OF APPOINTMENT OF LECTURERS 

Process of renewal of appointment of lecturers for the next academic term/s 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Lecturer 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Letter Request (1 original) College Staff 
Justification of the Renewal Appointment (1 original) 
Basic Paper (1 original) 
Student Evaluation for Teaching Result (SET, 1 original) 
Tentative Faculty Loading (1 original) 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
 Program Coordinator prepares the None 5 Days Program Coordinator 

faculty loading for the entire year College 
or for the remaining semester, 
approved by the Dean 

 Program Coordinator / Dean writes 5 Days Program Coordinator / Dean 
a letter addressed to the College 
Chancellor through channels to 
request the renewal of the faculty 
with attachments endorsed by the 
CAPC. Attached are the 
justification of the renewal / 
appointment, basic papers, 
student evaluation for teaching 
results, and the Tentative Faculty 
Loading 

 College Staff forwards the request 10 Minutes College Staff 
and other attachments to the  College 

 688 

707



 

HRDO for APFC review,   
endorsement, and approval of the  HRDO Staff 
Chancellor. 15 Days Human Resource 
Wait for APFC meeting.  Development Office 

APFC 
Office of the Vice-Chancellor 

for Academic Affairs 
 

Chancellor 
Office of the Chancellor 

 HRDO issues the Notice of 1 Day HRDO Staff 
Appointment (NOA) and informs Human Resource 
the college. College Staff picks up Development Office 
the NOA. 

 College Staff informs the lecturer/s 2 Minutes College Staff 
of the NOA College 

Lecturer picks up the NOA College Staff releases the NOA 2 Minutes College Staff 
College 

TOTAL None 26 Days,                   
14 Minutes 

 

 689 

708



 

 
22. REQUEST AUTHORITY TO HIRE AN ACADEMIC PERSONNEL 

The college requests permission to hire academic personnel 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Department Chair / Program Coordinator 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Letter Request Applicant 
Academic Loading College Staff 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Department Chair / 1.1 CAPC endorses the request None 1 Day Program Coordinator 

Program Coordinator and forwards the letter and the  College 
writes letter addressed to attachments to HRDO for APFC   
the Chancellor through review and endorsement.  Dean 
channels asking for   College 
authority to hire new 1.2 Waits for the scheduled APFC 17 Days  
faculty (3 months before meeting  HRDO Staff 
the start of the term).   1 Day HRDO 
 1.3 APFC forwards the request to   
Attach the academic the Chancellor for approval. 1 Day APFC 
loading for the entire  OVCAA 
academic year or the 1.4 Chancellor approves  
remaining sem/trimesters.  Chancellor 

1.5 Approval goes back to the Office of the Chancellor 
college staff and Staff informs  
the department chair/dean. Staff 

College 
TOTAL  20 Days  

 

 690 

709



 

 
23. REQUEST FOR AUTHENTICATION OF DOCUMENTS / CERTIFICATES 
Process wherein a requestor asks for his/her documents to be authenticated by the college 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail UP Students and Alumni 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Document for Authentication Requestor 
Some documents that are authenticated (but not limited to): 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Submits the document 1.1 College Staff accepts the College Staff 

for authentication to the document/s and College 
College Staff countersigns for 30 Minutes 

authentication to the 
relevant party. 

 1.2 College Secretary / Dean College Secretary 
signs the document/s. None Office of the College Secretary 

30 Minutes  
Dean 

College 
 1.3 College Staff releases the 1 Minute College Staff 

document/s to the College 
requestor 

TOTAL None 1 Hour,                      
1 Minute 

 

 691 

710



 

 
24. REQUEST FOR FACULTY FROM OTHER COLLEGES 

Request for acquiring the services of a faculty member from another college 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Letter of Request Program Coordinator as Requester 
Proposed Schedule 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Submits a letter of 1. The college asks the faculty for Dean 

request for a faculty his / her availability  College of requesting unit 
(endorsed by your Dean)   
addressed to the Dean of The servicing unit, either Faculty 
the college where the through the Dean or the College of servicing unit 
faculty currently belongs. Faculty, replies in writing if the  

None 3 Days 
 college can accommodate the Dean 
The request includes the request.  College of servicing unit 
proposed schedule.  

If the request cannot be 
accommodated, the requester 
has to look for a lecturer. 

TOTAL None 3 Days  
 

 692 

711



 

 
25. REQUEST FOR LIMITED PRACTICE OF PROFESSION 
Current faculty's request for permission for limited practice of his/her profession.  
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Limited Practice of Profession Form UIS (http://uis.up.edu.ph) 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Logs in and fills up form 1.1 Dean endorses request in Dean 

1 Hour 
in UIS UIS College 
 1.2 VCAA endorses request in Vice-Chancellor for Academic 

UIS Affairs 
4 Hours 

None Office of the Vice-Chancellor for 
Academic Affairs 

 1.3 Chancellor Chancellor  
approves/disapproves 4 Hours Office of the Chancellor 
request in UIS 

TOTAL None 9 Hours  
 

 693 

712



 

 
26. REQUEST FOR OFFICIAL DATA / INFORMATION 

Process for a UP Faculty/student to request official data/information that is within the limits of the Data Privacy Act (RA 10173) 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail UP Faculty / Student 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
  

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Submits a letter addressed The Dean gets clearance None 5 Days Dean 

to the Dean about the from legal.   College 
request for the specific   Legal Office 
data/document, including the  10 Minutes  
purpose of the request. Once cleared by legal,  

forwards the request to Staff 
the concerned Concerned Department / Unit 
department/unit.  
 
The Dean refers the 
request to the SoM 
Compliance Officer for 
Privacy 

2. Signs the request letter to College Staff releases the 1 Minute College Staff 
signify receipt of the document  College 
data/document.    

    
2. Client accomplishes the SoM Compliance Officer 10 Minutes SoM Compliance Officer for 

SoM’s Data Request Form for Privacy assists in form Privacy 
Covering Sensitive Personal accomplishment 
Information 

 694 

713



 

3. SoM’s Compliance Officer   1 day and 14  
for Privacy reviews and minutes 
processes the request to 
check for correctness, intent 
and initiates appropriate 
action on the request 

4. Upon completion of activities   10  minutes  
to address potential data 
privacy concerns, advice the 
Office of the College 
Secretary to prepare 
requested data 

5. Office of the College Office of the College  At least 3 days  
Secretary prepares data Secretary  depending on the 
requested  volume of data 

requested 
6. Office of the College Office of the College  1 day  

Secretary submits data Secretary 
prepared to the Compliance  
Officer for Privacy and when Compliance Officer for 
in order endorses to the Privacy 
Dean the release to the 
requesting party (Client) 

7. Office of the Dean acts on Office of the Dean  1 day  
the endorsement to release  
the data, notifies the Office Office of the College 
of the College Secretary Secretary 

8. Office of the College Office of the College  5 minutes  
Secretary releases Secretary 
document with the  
requesting party’s (Client)  
and requests the requesting 
party’s (Client) 

9. Office of the College Office of the College  1 minute  
 695 

714



 

Secretary provides the Secretary 
Compliance Officer for  
Privacy a copy of the Compliance Officer for 
released document with the Privacy 
requesting party’s (Client) 
acknowledgement 

TOTAL None 6 days,                     
45 Minutes 

 

 696 

715



 

 
27. REQUEST FOR OFFICIAL TIME 
Current faculty's request for an official time from the Chancellor 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Letter addressed to the Chancellor (1 original) Applicant 
Request for Official Time, if applicable UIS - http://uis.up.edu.ph 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Submits a letter addressed to 1.1 Dean endorses the request. Dean 

the Chancellor through  College 
1 Hour 

channels. If academic   
/administrative work is going   
to be affected, indicate your 1.2 VCAA endorses the Vice-Chancellor for Academic 
plan to cover or make up for request. None Affairs (VCAA) 

4 Hours 
missed classes and Office of the Vice-Chancellor for 
administrative work. Academic Affairs 
 1.3 Chancellor approves the Chancellor 
Fills up UIS for travel order, if request 4 Hours Office of the Chancellor 
applicable. 

TOTAL None 9 Hours  
 
 

 697 

716



 

 
28. REQUEST FOR OFFICIAL TRAVEL ORDER 

Process of requesting for Official Travel Order 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail UP Faculty, Staff, and Student 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Letter addressed to the Chancellor Applicant 
Itinerary (1 original)  
UIS account http://uis.up.edu.ph 
Line Item Budget (1 original)  
Obligation Request (OBR, 1 original)  
Disbursement Voucher (DV, 1 original) 
Approved Travel Order (1 original) 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Submits a request letter 1. Submits the letter to the None 4 Hours College Staff 

addressed to the College Staff for endorsement  College 
Chancellor, through of the Dean.   
channels, detailing why,  CAPC 
when, and where. Include Dean endorses the request. Office of the Vice-Chancellor for 
flight details if outside Academic Affairs 
Cebu, line-item budget if  
the travel requires funding. Dean 
 College 
Accesses and fills up UIS: 
Request for Travel 

 1.2 VCAA endorses the request.  4 Hours Vice-Chancellor for Academic 
Affairs (VCAA) 

Office of the Vice-Chancellor for 
Academic Affairs (OVCAA) 

 698 

717



 

 1.3 Chancellor approves the  1 Day Chancellor 
request. Office of the Chancellor 
 
Office of the Chancellor makes 
and releases the travel order 

If funding was requested 1.4 College Staff prepares and  1 Day College Staff 
prints the Itinerary of Travel, College 
OBR, Status, and DV with 
attached supporting documents 

 Staff encodes in the UIS portal the  4 Hours College Staff 
DV entry to secure the DV number. College 
Staff also scans the approved 
pertinent documents & attached 
them to the UIS DV entry. 

 Staff submits the documents for   Dean 
budget clearance and approval: College 

 
Head 

Budget Office 
 

Vice-Chancellor for 
Administration 

Office of the Vice-Chancellor for 
Administration 

 
Chancellor 

Office of the Chancellor 
 Once request has been approved,    

College Staff informs the applicant 
TOTAL None 4 Days  

 

 699 

718



 

 
29. REQUEST FOR UP CEBU RDG AND RELEASE OF RDG FUND 

Process of requesting and releasing of Research Dissemination Grant (RDG) from UP Cebu 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Faculty 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
UP Cebu RDG Application Form http://cvsc.upcebu.edu.ph/index.php/downloadable-forms/ 
Request letter addressed to the Chancellor through channels Applicant 
Attachments:  

● Official invitation or acceptance letter from the conference Organizer 
organizers which indicates the title of the invited lecture or 
accepted paper 

● Official information about the conference 
● Abstract of the paper (For associate and full professors, this must 

include the citation 
of the ISI-indexed publication to be presented at the conference.) 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Submits a letter of 1.1 College Staff receives a request with College Staff 

request with the attachments for endorsement of the 10 Minutes College 
accomplished application Dean   
form and attach  30 Minutes Dean 
supporting documents to Dean endorses the request.  College 
the College Staff The college staff sends the request to 10 Minutes  

None 
the CVSC office.  College Staff 

College 
1.2 CVSC Director reviews the document CVSC Director 

and endorses the request 3 Days Central Visayas Studies 
Center 

1.3 VCAA reviews and endorses the 4 Hours Vice-Chancellor for 

 700 

719



 

request. Academic Affairs 
Office of the Vice Chancellor 

for Academic Affairs 
1.4 Chancellor approves the request. Chancellor 

4 Hours 
Office of the Chancellor 

1.5 Once approved, the College Staff 4 Hours College Staff 
prepared the Disbursement Voucher  College 
and Obligation Request and Status.    
 10 Minutes Dean 
Dean endorses the release of payment College 

1.6 OVCAA endorses the release of Vice-Chancellor for 
payment. Academic Affairs 

4 Hours 
Office of the Vice Chancellor 

for Academic Affairs 
1.7 Chancellor approves the release of Chancellor 

4 Hours 
payment. Office of the Chancellor 

1.8 College Staff inputs request in UIS.  1 Hour College Staff 
  College 
   
The Cashier prepares the check for 4 Hours Cash Office Staff 
signature.   Cash Office 

   
Then routes it for signature 4 Hours Vice-Chancellor for 
  Academic Affairs or 
 1 Minute Chancellor 
  
College Staff informs the applicant that College Staff 
the check is ready for pickup College 

2. Pick up the check from Cashier releases signed check  10 Minutes Cashier 
the Cash Office Cash Office 

TOTAL None 8 Days  
 

 701 

720



 

 
30. REQUEST FOR UP SYSTEM RDG GRANTS / INTERNATIONAL PUBLICATION AWARD 

Process of requesting and releasing of Research Dissemination Grant (RDG) from UP System 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail  

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Application Form https://ovpaa.up.edu.ph/up-research-dissemination-grant-rdg/ 
Request letter addressed to the Chancellor through channels Applicant 
Attachments:  

● Official invitation or acceptance letter from the conference Organizer 
organizers which indicates the title of the invited lecture or 
accepted paper 

● Official information about the conference 
● Abstract of the paper (For associate and full professors, 

this must include the citation of the ISI-indexed publication 
to be presented at the conference.) 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Submits a letter of request 1.1 College Staff receives the 4 Hours College Staff 

with the accomplished request with attachments for  College 
application form and attach endorsement of the Dean.    
supporting documents to   Dean 
the College Staff Dean endorses the request.  College 

1.2 CVSC Director endorses the 3 Days CVSC Director 
request None 

 Central Visayas Studies Center 
1.3 VCAA endorses the request.  Vice-Chancellor for Academic 

1 Day Affairs 
 Office of the Vice-Chancellor for 
 Academic Affairs 

1.4 Chancellor endorses the 1 Day Chancellor 

 702 

721



 

request.  Office of the Chancellor 
2. Emails scanned endorsed 2.1 OVPAA (through OVPAA Staff 

application forms and rdg.ovpaa@up.edu.ph or Office of the Vice President for 
attachments to ipa.ovpaa@up.edu.ph) Academic Affairs 
rdg.ovpaa@up.edu.ph for informs the applicant by 
the RDG and email if the application was 
ipa.ovpaa@up.edu.ph for approved.  

17 Days 
the IPA.  
 Once approved, OVPAA 
Mails to UP (OVPAA) the sends an email to the 
printed form (with applicant for the release of 
endorsements and the grant/award.  
attachments) 

 2.2 College Staff prepares the College Staff 
Disbursement Voucher (DV) College 
and Obligation Request and  
Status (OBR).  1 Day  
 None  
Dean endorses the release Dean 
of payment. College 

 2.3 OVCAA endorses release of Vice-Chancellor for Academic 
payment Affairs 

4 Hours 
Office of the Vice-Chancellor for 

Academic Affairs 
 2.4 Chancellor approves the Chancellor 

4 Hours 
release of payment. Office of the Chancellor 

3. Forwards the email of 3.1 College Staff inputs request College Staff 
30 Minutes 

OVPAA to College Staff to in UIS.  College 
 

prepare the release of the   
4 Hours 

grant/award. Cash office staff prepares Cash Office Staff 
 

the check for signature.  Cash Office 
4 Hours 

Routing of checks for  
 

signature. Vice-Chancellor for 
10 Minutes 

 Administration  
 703 

722



 

College Staff informs the Chancellor 
applicant that the check is  
ready for pickup College Staff 

4. Picks up the check 3.2 Cash office staff releases Cash Office Staff 
 

signed check Cash Office 
TOTAL None 26 Days  

 

 704 

723



 

 
31. REQUEST TO HIRE NEW FACULTY 
The process to get a request to hire new faculty from the Chancellor. 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Program Coordinator / Dean 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Letter of Request (1 original) Program Coordinator / Dean  
Faculty Loading for entire Academic Year (1 original)  
Basic Papers: Faculty Applicant 

● Justification for hiring (1 original) 
● Curriculum Vitae of applicant (1 original) 
● Hiring Criteria (1 original) 
● Medical Certificate (1 original) 
● Psychological Test Result (1 original) 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Program Coordinator or 1.1 College Staff submits the request to 10 Minutes Program Coordinator / Dean 

Dean writes a letter of HRDO for APFC review and   
request endorsed by endorsement.  College Staff 
CAPC addressed to the Waits for the APFC schedule.  CAPC 
Chancellor through  18 Days College 
channels, one (1) APFC evaluates and deliberates.   
semester in advance Recommends action to the None  HRDO Staff 
together with attached Chancellor.  1 Day APFC 
basic papers  Office of the Vice-Chancellor for 

Academic Affairs 
1.2 HRDO Staff submits the endorsed 1 Day Chancellor 

request with supporting documents Office of the Chancellor 
for Chancellor's approval. 

TOTAL None 20 Days,         
10 Minutes 

 705 

724



 

32. REQUEST TO USE CLASSROOMS/FACILITIES (AFTER CLASS HOURS) 
Students may use UPC facilities, and this is the process of requesting usage of classroom/facilities after class hours 

 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail UP Cebu Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Request Form Campus Maintenance Office (CMO) 

PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES TO BE PAID PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

TIME 
1. Fills up the request form College Staff accepts and Hourly rate of the janitor, CMO Staff / Janitor 

and submits it to the checks for the availability pay directly to the janitor Campus Maintenance Office 
respective college/ of the room.  
division offices. CMO  College Staff 

1 Day 
(janitor) also signs on the Dean approves or College 
request form to ensure disapproves the request  
clean up after the activity. Dean 

College 
2. Pays for the use Cash office staff receives None, if academic- Cash Office Staff 

of the aircon payment and issues an related. Cash Office 
OR  

 
For non-academic 

purpose, PHP 50 / hr per 
unit of aircon usage 

TOTAL Academic-related – None 1 Day  
Non-academi - PHP 50/hr 
per unit of aircon usage 
+ Janitor fee 

 

 706 

725



 

 
33. STUDENT APPLYING FOR OFFICIAL TRAVEL (LOCAL) 
Process of applying for Official Travel of UP students 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail UP Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Letter of Request Applicant 
Other Requirements:  
Itinerary of Travel 
Flight Schedule 
Ticket (1 photocopy) 
Line-Item Budget 

FEES TO PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

BE PAID TIME 
1. Writes a letter of request 1.1 Program Adviser / Program Program Adviser / Program 

addressed to the Chancellor. Coordinator endorses the letter.  Coordinator 
  College 
Submits the letter together Dean endorses the letter.  
with the Itinerary of Travel, 5 Minutes Dean 
Flight Schedule, Ticket to the College 
Program Adviser / Program 
Coordinator and Dean for 

None 
endorsement 

2. Submits the signed College Staff prepares Obligation College Staff 
documents to the College Request & Status (OBR) and College 

15 Minutes 
Staff Disbursement Voucher (DV) and 

attaches it to the request. 
 College Staff enters the request in College Staff 

the University Information System 5 Minutes College 
(UIS) – DV Entry to secure the DV 

 707 

726



 

number 
 College Staff routes the necessary Head 

documents for budget clearance, Budget Office 
endorsements, and approval of the  
Chancellor Guidance Counselor 

Office of Student Affairs 
 

10 Minutes 
VCAA 

Office of the Vice-Chancellor 
for Academic Affairs 

 
Chancellor 

Office of the Chancellor 
 Once approved, College Staff College Staff 

scans the documents as 5 Minutes College 
attachments to the request on UIS 

 Once all papers are complete, Cash Office Staff 
Cashier issues the check and 1 Day and 4  
routes it for signatures Hours Vice Chancellor for 

Administration 
 College Staff informs the student to College Staff 

5 Minutes 
pick up check from the Cash Office College 

Claim Check Cashier issues check Cash Office Staff 
1 Minute 

Cash Office 
TOTAL None 3 Days  

Upon return from travel, College Staff submits the  
liquidate items for cash necessary documents to 
advance. Accounting for liquidation 
 

None  
Submit boarding passes, 
receipts, certificates of 
attendance, and other 
supporting documents required. 

 708 

727



 

 
34. SUGGESTIONS FROM STUDENTS 
Process of handling suggestions from students 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail UP Students 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Suggestions Form (2 original) College Staff 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION PERSON RESPONSIBLE 

PAID TIME 
1. Fills up suggestion form 1.1 College Staff acknowledges College Staff 

and submit to the College receipt of the form and gives College 
Staff one copy to the student and 10 Minutes  

one copy to the College College Secretary 
Secretary Office of the College Secretary 

 1.2 College Secretary / Dean College Secretary 
None 

responds to the suggestion Office of the College Secretary 
 

2 Days Dean 
College 

 1.3 College Staff replies to the College Staff 
student if required College 

TOTAL None 2 Days,             
10 Minutes 

 

 709 

728



 

 
35. TAKING THE MBA COMPREHENSIVE EXAM AND RESULTS 

Processes involved during and after the MBA Comprehensive Exams 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Comprehensive Exam applicants 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Graduating student College Secretary Staff 

FEES TO BE PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. Pays for comprehensive  10 Minutes Applicant 

Php200 
exam fee to the Cashier Cash Office Staff 

2. On the specified date, be at 2.1 Examiner starts registration 30 minutes 30 Minutes 
the test location 30 minutes before the exam 

 Examiner 
before the start of the 
Comprehensive Exam 

 2.2 Examiner assigns code numbers to 1 Minute 
Examiner 

examinees randomly by drawing lots. An 
 IT Staff 

IT Staff is present at all times for any 
ITC 

technical service 
 2.3 Takes the comprehensive exams on the 2 Days 

 Applicant 
specified dates  

 2.4 Checks the comprehensive exams 15 Days Comprehensive 
 Exam committee 

checkers 
 2.5 MBA Staff sends out a notification to the 1 Day 

MBA Staff 
examinees to pick up the MBA  

College 
Comprehensive Exam results 

3. Gets the results from the 3.1 MBA Staff issues the results.  
MBA Staff 

MBA Staff   
College 

For examinees who failed, MBA Staff 

 710 

729



 

informs the examinee of the schedule of the 
retake. 

TOTAL Php200.00 18 Days,         
41 Minutes 

 

 711 

730



 

 
36. TAKING THE MPAT AND GETTING THE RESULTS. 

This process explains how to take the MPAT and how to get the results. 
 
Office of Division School of Management 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Anyone who has paid the MPAT fee 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Permit to take the MPAT  Issued by the School of Management MBA Staff 

FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION 

BE PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 
1. On the date of the exam, MBA Staff registers applicant MBA Staff 

comes in 30 minutes College 
1 Minute 

before the start of the 
exam, show permit 

 Examiner conducts the written exam in the Examiners 
morning, followed by a panel interview in the 1 Day 
afternoon. 

2. Goes home after the exam    
 Checks exams, deliberation of the admission MPAT Checkers 

committee.  None Admissions 
14 Days 

The MBA Program Coordinator prepares the Committee 
 

notification letter containing the results of the  
1 Day 

MPAT examinees, signed by the coordinator and Dean 
the dean. College 

 MBA Staff notifies all MPAT examinees to pick up MBA Staff 
30 Minutes 

the MPAT results College 
3. Picks up the letter at the MBA Staff issues the letter. MBA Staff 

School of Management 1 Minute College 
Office 

TOTAL None 16 Days,          
32 Minutes 

 712 

731



OFFICE OF THE COLLEGE SECRETARY 
 
Summary of Services of the Office of the College Secretary (OCS) 
 

A. Application for Change of Matriculation  

B. Application for Dropping of Subjects  

C. Application for Graduation  

D. Application for Leave of Absence (LOA)  

E. Application for Student Overload  

F. Application for Readmission and Waiver of Maximum Residency Rule 
 

(MRR) 

G. Application for Shifting of Program  

H. Application for Validation of Courses  

I. Enrollment of Incoming Graduate Students  

J. Enrollment of Incoming Undergraduate Students  

K. Enrollment for Residency  

L. Enrollment of Returning Students from Leave of Absence (LOA)  

M. Enrollment of Shiftees  

N. Enrollment of Transferees  

O. Removal of Grade of Incomplete or 4.0  

P. Request to Cross-Register  

Q. Request for Substitution of Courses  

R. Request for True Copy of Grades (TCG)/Certificates  

S. Request for Waiver of Prerequisites  

T. Validation of Enrollment of Continuing Students  

732



 
External Services 
 
A. APPLICATION FOR CHANGE OF MATRICULATION - A 
    Requests of students to add or make changes to the enrolled subjects during 
enrollment period or after start of classes during change of matriculation period. 
 

Office or Division Office of the College Secretary (OCS) 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Students who have enrolled 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Change of Matriculation Form (pink OCS, OUR Website 
form) and Form 5 or 5A 
 

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES PROCESSING PERSON 
TO BE TIME RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Secure and     
fill out the Change     
of Matriculation     
Form      

 2.1 Endorse  1 day Program Adviser 
2. Get application   and Instructor/s 
endorsement from     
the adviser and    OCS staff 
instructor/s. 3.1 Receive the  1 day  

 signed pink form.    
3. Present pink     
form and with 3.2 Check and verify    
attached the request.    
Registered Form 5     
or 5A to the OCS     
for processing of     
enlistment or     
cancellation and 4.1 Forward the form  30 mins.  
assessment. to the College   OCS Staff 

 Secretary for    
4. Get approval approval.     
from the College   1 day College 
Secretary. 4.2 Approve /   Secretary 

 Disapprove    
 change of    
 matriculation    
 application.    
   1 hr.  
 5.1 Receive payment P20.00  Cashier 
 and write OR number.    

733



     
5. For paying    
students, pay the   1 day  
fee at the Cash 6.1 Verify payment.  OCS staff  
Office.    

 6.2 Update student   
6. Submit records in SAIS.  
Change of   
Matriculation Form 6.2.1 By adviser if Adviser 
and official receipt during enrollment  
to the OCS. period.  

   
 6.2.2 By OCS staff if  
 after the start of OCS staff 
 classes and during  
 the change of  
 matriculation period.  
   
 6.2.3 Stamp the pink OCS staff 
 form with  
 “REGISTERED”.  
   
   
 7.1 Receive pink form OCS staff 
 with attached official  
 receipt and stamp  
 REGISTERED.  

7. Get your copy  
of the pink form 
with the 
“REGISTERED” 
stamp. 

 
TOTAL P20.00 4 days, 1 hr. &  

30 mins. 

 
B. APPLICATION FOR CHANGE OF MATRICULATION - B 
    Requests of students to add or make changes to the enrolled subjects after the 
last day of change of matriculation. 
 

Office or Division Office of the College Secretary (OCS) 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Students who have enrolled 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Change of Matriculation Form (pink OCS, OUR Website 
form), Form 5 or 5A, and letter of 
request 

734



 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES PROCESSING PERSON 

TO BE TIME RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Secure and fill out    Student 
the Change of     
Matriculation Form     
and prepare a     
letter of request     
addressed to the     
Chancellor     
through channels.     

     
2. Get endorsement 2.1 Endorse/Not Endorse P20.00 3 days Program 

of the pink form application   Adviser, 
from the adviser    Instructor/s and 
and instructor/s    Chair/Coordinat
and letter of    or 
request from the  None   
adviser and chair     
or coordinator.     

     
3. Present pink form 3.1 Receive the signed  1 day OCS staff 

and letter with pink form and letter.    
attached     
Registered Form 5 3.2 Check and verify the    
or 5A to the OCS request.    
for processing of     
enlistment or     
cancellation and     
assessment.     

 4.1 Forward the form and    
4. Get approval of letter to the College None 1 day OCS staff 

the pink form and Secretary for signature    
endorsement of and/or approval.     
the letter of 4.2 Approve/Disapprove  College 
request from the change of  Secretary 
College Secretary. matriculation   

 application.   
 4.3 Endorse/Not Endorse   
 the letter.   
    

5. Get 5.1 Forward the form and 30 mins. OCS staff 
endorsement of letter to the Dean for   
the letter of endorsement.    
request from the 5.2 Endorse/ Not 1 day Dean 
Dean. Endorse the letter.   

    
 30 mins. OCS staff 

735



6. Get 6.1 Forward the form and   
endorsement of letter to the University   
the letter of Registrar for   
request from the endorsement.  2 days University 
University 6.2 Endorse the letter.  Registrar 
Registrar.    

  30 mins. OCS staff 
 7.1 Forward the form and   

7. Get letter to the Vice-   
endorsement of chancellor for Academic   
the letter of Affairs for endorsement.   Vice-chancellor 
request from the 7.2 Endorse/Not 2 days for Academic 
Vice-chancellor for Endorse the letter.  Affairs 
Academic Affairs.   

  30 mins. OCS staff 
 8.1 Forward the form and  
 letter to the Chancellor for   
 approval.   

8. Get approval 8.2 2 days Chancellor 
of the letter of Approve/Disapprove  
request from the the letter.   
Chancellor.  Cashier 

 9.1 Receive payment and 1 hr.  
 write OR number  
9. For paying    

students, pay the  OCS staff 
1 day 

fee at the Cash   
Office.   

 
 10.1 Verify payment.  
10. Submit   

 
Change of 10.2 Update student  
Matriculation Form records in SAIS.  
and official receipt   
to the OCS. 10.3 Stamp the pink form  

 with “REGISTERED”  
   
 11.1 Receive pink form  
11. Get your copy with attached official  

of the pink form receipt and stamp  
with the REGISTERED.  
“REGISTERED” 
stamp. 

TOTAL P20.00 13 days and 3  
hrs. 

 
C. APPLICATION FOR DROPPING OF COURSES 

Request of students to officially drop course/s enrolled in. 
 

Office or Division Office of the College Secretary (OCS) 

736



Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Students  
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Form 26 Dropping Form (green form) OCS , OUR Website 
 

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON 
BE PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Secure and fill     
out FORM 26     
Dropping     
Form (green     
form).     

     
2. Get endorsement 2.1 Sign the form and  2 days Instructor 

from your indicate class    
Instructor. standing if filing is    

 done after the first    
 half of the term.    
     
3. Present green 3.1 Receive the  15 mins OCS Staff 

form with signed green form.    
attached     
Registered Form 3.2 Check and verify  1 day  
5 or 5A to the the request.    
OCS for     
processing.     

     
4. Get approval Approve / disapprove  1 day College 

from the application for   Secretary 
your College dropping    
Secretary.     

     
5. Pay fee at the 5.1 Receive payment P10.00/unit 1 hr. Cashier 

Cash Office. and write OR    
 number.    
     
6. Submit Dropping 6.1 Verify payment.  1 day OCS staff 

Form and Official    
Receipt to the 6.2 Update student   
Office of records in SAIS.  
the College  
Secretary.  

  
7. Receive  

student’s copy  
and instructor’s  
copy of the green  
form. 

737



 
 

TOTAL P10.00/unit 5 days, 1 hr  
and 15 mins 

 
 
D. APPLICATION FOR GRADUATION - A 

A student’s application to graduate and be conferred an academic degree on or 
before the deadline of application for graduation. 

 
Office or Division Office of the College Secretary (OCS) 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Graduating Students  
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. Application Form (blue form) OCS, OUR Website 
2. Updated Checklist signed by adviser  

 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES PROCESSING PERSON 

TO BE TIME RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Secure and fill     
out the     
Application for     
Graduation.     

     
2. Secure the 2.1 Sign the application  1.5 days Program Adviser 

signature of form    
Program Adviser.     

     
3. For paying 3.1 Receive payment P300.00 1 hr. Cashier 

students, pay the and write OR number    
fee at the Cash and date on the    
Office. application form    

     
     
4. Submit to OCS 4.1 Verify payment  1 day OCS staff 

the duly   
accomplished 4.2 Receive application  
form together accomplished form 
with a copy of  
your updated 4.3 Check and verify 
program the request 
checklist signed  
by your Program 4.4 Stamp the date of 
Adviser. receipt 

  

738



 4.5 Add student in the 
 list of applicants for 
 graduation 
 
 
5. Receive student’s 

copy of the blue 
form. 

TOTAL P300.00 2.5 days and 1  
hr. 

 
E. APPLICATION FOR GRADUATION - B 

A student’s application to graduate and be conferred an academic degree after 
the deadline of application for graduation. 

 
Office or Division Office of the College Secretary (OCS) 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Graduating Students  
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

1. Application Form (blue form) OCS, OUR Website 
2. Updated Checklist signed by  
adviser 

 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES PROCESSING PERSON 

TO BE TIME RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Secure and     
fill out the     
Application for     
Graduation and     
prepare a letter of     
request     
addressed to the     
Chancellor.     

     
2. Secure the 2.1 Sign and endorse  1 day Program Adviser 
signature of the application   and 
Program Adviser    Chair/Coordinato
to the form and    r 
the signatures     
and endorsement     
of the adviser and     
chair or     

    

739



coordinator to the     
letter of request.     

 3.1 Receive the signed  15 mins.  
3. Present blue blue form and letter.   OCS staff 
form and letter     
with attached 3.2 Check and verify the  1 day  
updated checklist request.    
signed by the     
Adviser to the     
OCS for     
processing. 4.1 Forward the form  30 mins.  

 and letter to the College   Student/OCS 
4. Get Secretary for   staff 
endorsement of endorsement.     
the letter of 4.2 Endorse/Not  1 day  
request from the Endorse the letter.   College 
College    Secretary 
Secretary.     

 5.1 Forward the form  30 mins. Student/OCS 
 and letter to the Dean   staff 
 for endorsement.     

5. Get 5.2 Endorse/Not  1 day  
endorsement of Endorse the letter.   Dean 
the letter of     
request from the 6.1 Forward the form  30 mins.  
Dean. and letter to the   Student/OCS 

 University Registrar for   staff 
6. Get endorsement.     
endorsement of 6.2 Endorse/Not  2 days  
the letter of Endorse the letter.   University 
request from the    Registrar 
University 7.1 Forward the form  30 mins.  
Registrar. and letter to the Vice-   Student/OCS 

 chancellor for Academic   staff 
 Affairs for endorsement.     
 7.2 Endorse/Not    

7. Get Endorse the letter.  2 days  
endorsement of    VCAA 
the letter of 8.1 Forward the form    
request from the and letter to the   Student/OCS 
Vice-Chancellor Chancellor for approval.    staff 
for Academic 8.2    
Affairs. Approve/Disapprove    

 the letter.   Chancellor 
     

8. Get approval 9.1 Receive payment P300.00 1 hr.  
of the letter of and write OR number   Cashier 
request from the and date on the    
Chancellor. application form    

     
     

740



9. For paying 10.1 Verify payment 1 day  
students, pay the  OCS staff 
fee at the Cash 10.2 Receive application 
Office. accomplished form 

  
 10.3 Check and verify 
10. Submit to OCS the request 
the duly  
accomplished form 10.4 Stamp the date of 
together with a copy receipt 
of your updated  
program 10.5 Add student in the 
checklist signed by list of applicants for 
your Program graduation 
Adviser.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. Receive 
student’s copy of 
the blue form. 

TOTAL P300.00 9 days, 3 hrs.  
and 15 mins 

 
F. APPLICATION FOR LEAVE OF ABSENCE (LOA) - A 

Application for a student who intends to go on leave for one (1) term per 
application for a student who is enrolled and is within LOA limit. 
 

Office or Division Office of the College Secretary (OCS) 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Students  
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. LOA Form (yellow form) OCS, OUR Website 
2.  University Clearance 
3. UP ID 
4. Medical certificate if applicable 

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON 
BE PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Secure and fill out     
the Application for     
Leave of Absence     
and accomplish     

    

741



University     
Clearance.       
 2.1 If availed before  1 day Instructor/s  
2.Secure signatures the second half, sign Php150.0   
of instructor/s. the form. 0   
     
 2.2 If availed during   Instructor/s (if 
 the second half,   availed of during 
 indicate class  1 hr second half of the 
 standing of the   term 
 student and affix    
 signature.    
    
 3.1 Endorse / Not  Program 
3.Get the endorse application  Coordinator or 
endorsement of the for LOA.  Department Chair  
Program  30 mins  
Coordinator or    
Department Chair.    
 4.1 Endorse / Not 10 mins College Secretary 
4. Get the endorse application 10 mins  
endorsement of the for LOA.   
College Secretary.  10 mins  
 5.1 Approve /  Dean 
5. Get the approval Disapprove   
of the Dean. application   
  5 mins  
 6.1 Receive payment  Cashier 
6. If approved, pay and write OR   
the fee at the Cash number and date 30 mins  
Office. on the   
 application form  
   
   
 7.1 Verify payment OCS Staff 
7. Submit the duly   
paid form, college 7. 2 Stamp  
clearance, UP ID, “RECEIVED” with  
and other date and initials  
documents (i.e.   
medical certificate) 7.3 Drop classes in  
to the OCS. SAIS  
  
 7.4 Tag LOA in SAIS 
  
  
8. Receive student’s 
copy of the yellow 
form. 

TOTAL PHP150 1 day, 2 hours  
and 40 mins 

742



 
G. APPLICATION FOR LEAVE OF ABSENCE (LOA) - B 

Application for a student who intends to go on leave for one (1) term per 
application for a student who is enrolled and is beyond LOA limit. 
 

Office or Division Office of the College Secretary (OCS) 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Students  
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1.LOA Form (yellow form) OCS, OUR Website 
2.  University Clearance 
3. UP ID 
4. Medical certificate if applicable 
5. Letter request 

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES PROCESSING PERSON 
TO BE TIME RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Secure and fill out     
the Application for     
Leave of Absence,    
accomplish    
University Clearance     
and prepare a letter    
of request    
addressed to the    
Chancellor through    
channels.    
    
2.Secure signatures 2.1 If availed before the None Instructor/s  
of instructor/s. second half, sign the   
 form.   
    
 2.2 If availed during the None Instructor/s (if 
 second half, indicate  availed of during 
 class standing of the  second half of the 
 student and affix  term 
 signature.   
 Sign and endorse   
 application   
    
    
3.Get endorsement 3.1 Endorse/ Not None Adviser 
of the letter request Endorse the letter   
from the adviser. request.    
    
4. Get endorsement  None OCS Staff 
of the yellow form   

743



and letter request 4.1 Forward the form   
from the Department and letter to the Dept.   
Chair/ Coordinator. Chair/Coordinator for None Program 
 endorsement.   Coordinator or 
   Department Chair  
 4.2 Endorse/ Not   
5. Get endorsement Endorse the letter. None OCS Staff 
of the yellow form    
and letter request 5.1 Forward the form   
from  the College and letter request  to   
Secretary. the College Secretary   
 for endorsement.  None College Secretary 
    
 5.2 Endorse/Not   
6. Get the approval Endorse the letter.  OCS Staff 
of the yellow form  None  
and endorsement of 6.1 Forward the form   
the letter request and letter to the Dean   
from the Dean. for endorsement.  None Dean 
    
 6.2 Endorse/Not   
7. Get endorsement Endorse the letter. None OCS Staff 
of the letter request    
from the University 7.1 Forward the letter    
Registrar. request to the  University 
 University Registrar for  Registrar 
 endorsement.  None  
    
 7.2 Endorse/Not   
 Endorse the letter.   
8.Get endorsement  None OCS Staff 
of the letter of    
request from the 8.1 Forward the letter   
Vice-Chancellor for request to the Vice-   
Academic Affairs. Chancellor for   
 Academic Affairs for  Vice Chancellor 
 endorsement.  None for Academic 
   Affairs 
9. Get approval of 8.2 Endorse/Not   
the letter request Endorse the letter. None OCS Staff 
from the Chancellor.    
 9.1 Forward the  letter   
 request  to the   
 Chancellor for  Chancellor 
 approval.  None  
    
10. If approved, pay 9.2Approve/Disappr  Cashier 
the fee at the Cash ove the letter. PHP150  
Office.    
 10.1 Receive payment   
 and write OR number   

744



 and date on the   
11. Submit the duly application form  OCS Staff 
paid form, college    
clearance, UP ID,    
approved letter 11.1 Verify payment  
request   
and other 11.2 Stamp  
documents (i.e. “RECEIVED” with date  
medical certificate) and initials  
to the OCS.  
 11.3 Drop classes in 
 SAIS 
  
12. Receive 11.4 Tag LOA in SAIS 
student’s copy of the  
yellow form.  

TOTAL PHP150 1 day, 2 hours  
and 40 mins 

 
H. APPLICATION FOR LEAVE OF ABSENCE (LOA) - C 

Application for a student who intends to go on leave for one (1) term per 
application for a student who is not enrolled and is within LOA limit. 
 

Office or Division Office of the College Secretary (OCS) 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Students  
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. LOA Form (yellow form) OCS, OUR Website 
2.  University Clearance 
3. UP ID 
4. Medical certificate if applicable 

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES PROCESSING PERSON 
TO BE TIME RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Secure and fill out     
the Application for     
Leave of Absence     
and accomplish     
University     
Clearance.       
   1 day  
2..Get the 2.1  Forward the form   OCS Staff 
endorsement of the to the Dept.    
Program Chair/Coordinator for    
Coordinator or endorsement.   Program 
Department Chair.     Coordinator or 
  1 hr Department Chair  

745



 2.2 Endorse / Not    
 endorse application    
 for LOA.    
3. Get the    OCS Staff 
endorsement of the 3.1  Forward the form    
College Secretary. to the College    
 Secretary for    
 endorsement.   30 mins  
    College Secretary 
 3.2 Endorse / Not    
 endorse application  10 mins  
 for LOA.  10 mins  
4. Get the approval    OCS Staff 
of the Dean. 4.1  Forward the form  10 mins  
 to the Dean for    
 approval.     
    Dean 
 4.2 Approve /  5 mins  
 Disapprove    
 application for LOA.    
5. If approved, pay  Php 30 mins Cashier 
the fee at the Cash 5.1 Receive payment 150.00   
Office. and write OR number  
 and date on the  
 application form  
   
6. Submit the duly  OCS Staff 
paid form, college 6.1 Verify  
clearance, UP ID, payment  
and other   
documents (i.e. 6. 2  Stamp  
medical certificate) “RECEIVED” with  
to the OCS. date and initials  
   
 6.3 Tag LOA in SAIS 
7. Receive student’s  
copy of the yellow  
form. 

TOTAL PHP150 1 day, 2 hours  
and 40 mins 

 
I. APPLICATION FOR LEAVE OF ABSENCE (LOA) - D 

Application for a student who intends to go on leave for one (1) term per 
application for a student who is not enrolled and is beyond LOA limit. 
 

Office or Division Office of the College Secretary (OCS) 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Students  

746



CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. LOA Form (yellow form) OCS, OUR Website 
2.  University Clearance 
3. UP ID 
4. Medical certificate if applicable 
5. Letter request 

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES PROCESSING PERSON 
TO BE TIME RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Secure and fill out     
the Application for     
Leave of Absence,    
accomplish    
University Clearance     
and prepare a letter    
of request    
addressed to the    
Chancellor through    
channels.    
    
2.Get endorsement 2.1 Endorse/Not  Adviser 
of the letter request Endorse the letter   
from the adviser. request.   
    
3. Get endorsement 3.1 Forward the form  OCS Staff 
of the yellow form and letter request  to the   
and letter request  Dept. Chair/Coordinator.   
from the Department    
Chair/and 3.2 Endorse/Not   
Coordinator.. Endorse the letter  Dept. 
 request and form.  Chair/Coordinator 
    
 4.1 Forward the form   
4. Get endorsement and letter to the College  OCS Staff 
of the yellow form Secretary.   
and letter request    
from  the College 4.2 Endorse/Not   
Secretary. Endorse the letter  College Secretary 
 request and form.   
    
 5.1 Forward the form  OCS Staff 
5. Get approval of and letter to the Dean.   
the yellow form and    
endorsement of the 5.2 Endorse/Not  Dean 
letter request from Endorse the letter   
the Dean.    
 5.3   
 Approve/Disapprove   
 the form    

747



6. Get endorsement   OCS Staff 
of the letter request 6.1 Forward the letter   
from the University request to the University   
Registrar. Registrar.   
   University 
 6.2 Endorse/Not  Registrar 
 Endorse the letter.   
7.Get endorsement   OCS Staff 
of the letter request 7.1 Forward the letter   
from the Vice- request to the Vice-   
Chancellor for Chancellor for Academic   
Academic Affairs. Affairs.  Vice Chancellor 
   for Academic 
 7.2 Endorse/Not  Affairs 
 Endorse the letter.   
8. Get approval of   OCS Staff 
the letter of request 8.1 Forward the letter   
from the Chancellor. request to the   
 Chancellor for approval.   
    Chancellor 
 8.2 Approve/   
 Disapprove the   
 letter.   
9. If approved, pay  PHP150 Cashier 
the fee at the Cash 9.1 Receive payment   
Office. and write OR number   
 and date on the   
 application form   
    
10. Submit the duly  OCS Staff 
paid form, college 10.1 Verify payment  
clearance, UP ID,  
approved letter 10. 2 Stamp 
request and other “RECEIVED” with date 
documents (i.e. and initials 
medical certificate)  
to the OCS. 10.3 Tag LOA in SAIS 
  
  
11. Receive 
student’s copy of the 
yellow form. 

TOTAL PHP150 1 day, 2 hours  
and 40 mins 

 
 

  

748



J. APPLICATION FOR STUDENT OVERLOAD 
 Application for a student to take more than the required number of units per 
semester as indicated in the study plan. 
 

Office or Division Office of the College Secretary (OCS) 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Students 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Application for Student Overload Form OCS 
Checklist OUR Website 

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES PROCESSING PERSON 
TO BE TIME RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Fill out the     
Application for    
Student Overload    
form.    

    
2. Secure the 2.1 Review the  Adviser 

signature of application for 5 mins  
Program Adviser. overload.   

   1 day  
 2.2 Indicate the   
 academic status of the   
 student in the last   
 semester enrolled.   
  30 mins  
 2.3 Endorse / Not   
 endorse the   
 application.   
    
3. Get the 3.1 Forward the form  Coordinator/Cha

endorsement of to the Program 1 day ir 
Program Coordinator or   
Coordinator or Department Chair.   
Department Chair.    

 3.2 Endorse / Not   
 endorse the   
 application.   
    
4. Submit form to the 4.1 Check and verify  OCS staff 

OCS together with the request. 30 mins  
a copy of the    
updated program    
checklist signed by  10 mins  
the adviser.    

    
40 mins OCS staff 

749



5. Get the 5.1 Forward the form  
endorsement of and checklist to the  
the College College Secretary for  
Secretary. endorsement.   

  College 
 5.2 Endorse / Not Secretary 
 endorse the  
 application.  
  OCS staff 
6. Get the approval 6.1 Forward the form  

of the Dean. and checklist to the  
 Dean for approval.   
  Dean 
 6.2 Approve /  
 Disapprove the  
 application.  
   
  OCS staff 
7. If approved during 7.1 Receive the  

the registration approved form and  
period and before other documents.  
the start of  Adviser 
classes, submit 7.2 Add the requested  
the approved form overload subject in  
together with a SAIS.  
copy of the   
updated program   
checklist signed by   
the adviser.   

  
8. If approved after  

the start of 
classes, process 
change of 
matriculation 
request and attach 
approved overload 
form with a copy of 
the updated 
program checklist 
signed by the 
adviser.  

TOTAL None 2 days and 2  
hrs 

 

K. APPLICATION FOR READMISSION AND WAIVER OF MAXIMUM 
RESIDENCY RULES (MRR) 

750



 Application for students who went on Absence without leave (AWOL), incurred 
poor academic standing, and who have exceeded the maximum residency allowed per 
student to be able to enroll 
 

Office or Division Office of the College Secretary (OCS) 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction C2G – Citizen to Government 
Who may avail Students who: 

Category A:  are dropped for reasons of Double 
Probation, Dismissal, or Permanent 
Disqualification; 

 
Category B: went on Absence Without Leave (AWOL); 

or 
 
Category C: have exceeded the Maximum Residence 

Rule (MRR), 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. Letter of Appeal 1. Student 
2. Plan of Study 2. Student 
3. Appeal for Readmission Form 3. OCS and downloadable at 
4. True Copy of Grades our.upcebu.edu.ph 
5. for Absence without Leave 4. OCS 
(AWOL) cases, additional documents  
required:  

5.1 Medical Certificate or equivalent  
such as latest Annual Physical 5.1 Any health services unit 
Exam results (if working)  

5.2 University Clearance (3 copies) 5.2 Office of the University Registrar (OUR) 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES PROCESSING PERSON 

TO BE TIME RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Secure and fill out Fill out needed None 30 mins OCS staff 
the Appeal for information in the    
Readmission Appeal for    
Form, in one copy. Readmission Form    
Submit to your     
OCS Staff.     

     
2. Write a Letter of Receive letter of None 5 mins OCS staff 

Appeal, addressed appeal with supporting    
to the College documents    
Dean stating the     
compelling     
reason(s) for your     
status. Indicate     
what steps have     
been or will be     
undertaken in     
order to ensure     

751



good academic     
standing.     

     
3. Secure True Copy Issue TCG P50 / 3 days OCS staff 

of Grades (TCG).  page   
     
4. Prepare a Plan of Review and approve None 1 day Program Adviser 

Study detailing the the prepared Study    
courses to be Plan and endorse the    
taken from the letter of appeal    
time of     
readmission until     
graduation.     
Ask your Adviser     
to approve your     
Plan of Study and     
endorse your     
appeal.     

     
5. Get endorsement Review and sign the None 3 days Department 

from your letter of appeal   Chair or 
Department Chair    Program 
or Program    Coordinator 
Coordinator.     

     
6. Go to the Office of Meet student for None 3 days Guidance 

Student Affairs guidance counselling   Specialist 
(OSA) for and issue Letter of    
counselling and Recommendation    
secure letter of afterwards    
recommendation     
(for undergraduate     
students only).     

     
7. Get endorsement 7.1 Forward appeal to None 5 mins OCS staff 

from your College the College    
Secretary. Secretary for    

 endorsement, with    
 all attachments,    
 including ‘Student    
 Academic    
 Performance    
 Evaluation’    
 summary    
 7.2 Sign the appeal None 30 mins College 
    Secretary 
     
8. For Category A, 8.1 Forward the None 1 day OCS staff 

get endorsement endorsed appeal    
from your College with all    
Dean.    

752



 attachments to the    
 College Dean None 1 day Dean 
 8.2 Endorse appeal to    
 Admissions    
 Committee     
9. For Category B  None 1 day Dean 

and/or C, get the 9.1 Approve the appeal    
approval of your that meets the    
College Dean. required academic    
This is the last status None 2 days Dean 
step if you are 9.2 Issue Notice of    
returning from Action (NOA)    
AWOL or asking     
for an extension of     
residence (waiver     
of MRR); and     
ONLY if you have     
GOOD academic     
standing.     

     
10. Wait for the  None 4 days Admissions 

action of the Issue NOA    Committee 
Admissions    through the Vice 
Committee.    Chancellor of 
(Note: Admissions    Academic 
Committee meets    Affairs (VCAA) 
only once per     
semester/trimester     
before the regular     
registration     
period.)     

     
11. Submit the NOA  None 1 hr OCS staff 

to the OCS staff. Receive copy of NOA    
 and update SAIS    
 status if appeal is    
 approved    
12. If approved pay  PHP 50 mins Cashier 

the fee for Receive payment and 225  
Readmission for issue OR  
AWOL and secure   
University   
Clearance   
(Proceed to   
Enrollment)  

  
TOTAL PHP 19 days and  

50 / 3 hours 
page 
for the 
TCG 

753



 
 
PHP 
225 for 
Readm
ission 
from 
AWOL 

 

 

L. APPLICATION FOR SHIFTING OF PROGRAM 
 Application for a student to transfer to another program of study within UP Cebu. 
 

Office or Division Office of the College Secretary (OCS) 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Students  
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Application for Shifting Form  OCS 

Downloadable at our.upcebu.edu.ph 
 

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES PROCESSING PERSON 
TO BE TIME RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Secure and fill out Furnish copy of None 5 mins OCS staff of 
the Application for application for shifting   current college 
Shifting of form to applicant    
Program Form.     

     
2. Have your GWA Compute the GWA None 1 day OCS staff of 

and Total Units and the total units   current college 
Earned computed earned by the student    
by the OCS Staff.     

     
3. Have the Sign the application None 1 day Current Program 

application noted form for shifting   Adviser 
by your program     
adviser.     

     
4. Get endorsement Sign the application None 4 hrs College 

from College for shifting   Secretary of 
Secretary of your    current college 
current college.     

     
5. Get the Sign the application None 1 day and 3 hrs Department 

recommendation for shifting   Chair or 

754



of the Department    Program 
Chair or Program    Coordinator of 
Coordinator of the    accepting 
accepting college.    college 

     
6. Have the 6.1 Endorse (or not None 4 hrs College 

application endorse) the   Secretary of 
endorsed by the application for   accepting 
College Secretary shifting   college 
of the accepting     
college and 6.2 Approve (or None 4 hrs Dean of 
approved by the disapprove) the   accepting 
Dean of the application for   college 
accepting college. shifting    

  None 5 mins OCS staff of 
7. Submit the 7.1 Receive the   accepting 

approved approved   college 
application form to application for    
the OCS of the shifting form None 50 mins OCS staff of 
accepting college. 7.2 Update student’s  accepting 

program on SAIS  college 
 

TOTAL None 5 days  

 

755



M. APPLICATION FOR VALIDATION OF COURSES  
 A student’s request to have courses previously taken in other universities to be 
credited to his or her current program 

 
Office or Division Office of the College Secretary (OCS) 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Students transferees who would like to have courses 

taken up in another college/university to be 
evaluated and validated as part of the total 
academic units gained in UP Cebu 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. Application for Validation Form OCS and downloadable at our.upcebu.edu.ph 

(Form 44A) 
 

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES PROCESSING PERSON 
TO BE TIME RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Accomplish 1 .Furnish form for None 5 mins OCS staff 
Validation Form in validation of courses   
three (3) copies.     

    
2. Submit the 2. Facilitate the None 3 days University 

accomplished form application for   Registrar 
to the Office of the validation of    
University Registrar courses    
for action.     

     
3. Have your  None 5 days Instructor 

courses/subjects 3.1 Administers   assigned to 
validated by the validating exam None 5 mins validate 
concerned faculty, 3.2 Affix signature    
by taking a and indicate    
validating exam. “Passed” or    

 “Failed”    
4. Submit the signed  None 5 mins OCS staff 

Validation Permit to 4.1 Forward the    
the Office of the signed Validation    
College Secretary Form to the Dean    
(OCS) for the final for approval None 4 hours Dean 
approval of the 4.2 Sign application    
Dean of the College for validation of    
which offers the courses    
course/s for which     
advanced credit is     
being applied for.     

756



     
5. If approved, get a  None 5 mins OCS staff 

copy of the 5.1 Give copy of    
approved Validation approved   
Permit. Validation of    

 Courses Form to   
the student. None 40 mins OCS Staff 

5.2 Update the  
student’s Study 
Plan 

 
 

TOTAL None 8 days and 5  
hrs 

 
 
 
 
N. ENROLLMENT OF INCOMING GRADUATE STUDENTS 

Enrollment of new students in the Master’s Degree Program (INCLUDE DEPT. 
CLEARANCE) 

 
 

Office or Division Office of the College Secretary (OCS) 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Students (Graduate) 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Entrance Examination Results Graduate Program Office 
Admission Slip  Graduate Program Office 
Official Transcript of Records 
Honorable Dismissal 
Birth Certificate 
Marriage Certificate 
Medical Certificate 
2 x 2 ID picture 

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES PROCESSING PERSON 
TO BE TIME RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Secure Admission 1.Release the None  10 mins Graduate 
Slip and Entrance Entrance Examination   Program Clerk 
Examination Results and Notice of    
Results from the Admission.    
Graduate Program     
Office.     

     

757



2. Submit all 2.619467512 Receiv None 2 hrs OUR staff 
requirements to e and check    
the Office of the submitted    
University documents None 2 hrs  
Registrar. 2.619467513 Issue    

 SAIS ID and    
 password to None 2 hrs  
 student    
 2.619467514 Issue    

3. Proceed to the Admission Slip to None 2 hrs Graduate 
Graduate Program student   Program Adviser 
Adviser for     
enrollment of 3.Enroll student in the    
courses in the SAIS, print Form 5A    
SAIS. Get your and tag as    
Form 5A from the “ADVISED”    
Adviser.     

     
4. Go to the  None 1 hr Graduate 

Graduate Program    Program clerk 
Clerk for     
counterchecking of 4.Counter-check    
Form 5A. Form 5A     

     
5. Proceed to OSA if  None 1 hr OSA staff 

you have     
scholarships.     

 5.OSA recalculates    
6. Pay fees at the tuition fees  Based 30 mins Cashier 

Cashier’s Office.  on tuition   
  calculate   
 6.Receive payment    
7. Affix signature on and issue 3 copies of None 10 mins OCS staff 

Form5 eOR Form 5eOR      
Submit Form 5A,     
Form5 eOR  and 7.1 Stamp    
Admission Form to “REGISTERED”    
the OCS for on Form5eOR None 10 mins OCS staff 
validation. with date and  

initials 
7.2 Give enrollee a 

copy of the 
stamped Form5 
eOR  

TOTAL None 1 day and 3 hrs  

 
 
 

758



O. ENROLLMENT OF INCOMING UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS 
 Enrollment of new students in a Bachelor’s degree program (INCLUDE DEPT. 
CLEARANCE) 
 
 

Office or Division Office of the College Secretary (OCS) 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail New students 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Admission slip   OUR 

 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES PROCESSING PERSON 

TO BE TIME RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Secure Admission 1.Issue Admission None 6 hrs OUR staff 
Slip from OUR Slip, SAIS ID, and    

 password    
     
2. Submit Admission 2.1 Enroll student in None 30 mins OCS staff 

Slip to OCS. SAIS    
 2.2 Print 3 copies of None 5 mins OCS staff 
 Form 5    
 2.3 Give copies of None 5 mins OCS staff 
 Form 5 to student    
 for signature    
     
3. Affix signature on 3.Stamp None 5 mins OCS staff 

the Form 5 and “REGISTERED” on  
return Form 5 to the signed Form 5 and 
OCS for give one copy to 
validation. student 

 
TOTAL None 6 hrs and 45  

mins 

 

759



P. ENROLLMENT FOR RESIDENCY 
Enrollment of students who have taken up all academic requirements but still 

need to comply or complete all other requirements or who need to remove grade 
deficiencies. 
Office or Division Office of the College Secretary (OCS) 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Students who have taken up all academic requirements but 

still need to comply or complete all other requirements or 
who need to remove grade deficiencies. 

CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Updated Checklist Student 
Form 5A (2 printed copies) SAIS  
CLIENT STEP    AGENCY ACTION FEES TO PROCESSING PERSON 

 BE PAID TIME RESPONSIBLE 

1. Go to program 1.1 Enroll student for None 2 hrs Program 
adviser to enroll for residency   Adviser (if 
residency. 1.2 Check if student’s None 10 mins within 

 account has been   registration 
 tagged as   period) 
 “Advised”   OCS staff (if 
    beyond 
    registration 
    period) 
     
2. Pay the required 2.Receive payment PHP 200 30 mins Cashier 

fee at the Cash and issue Form 5    
Office and get the eOR     
Form5 eOR  from     
the Cash Office.     

     
3. Affix signature on 3.1 Receive Form 5 None 5 mins OCS staff 

Form5 eOR.  eOR and check if    
Submit the Form  5 student has    
eOR and updated signed on the    
checklist to the form    
OCS.  3.2 Stamp None 5 mins OCS staff 

 “REGISTERED”    
and give a copy    
to the student    

3.3 Tag student as None 10 mins OCS staff 
“Officially  
Enrolled” in SAIS  

 
TOTAL P200 3 hrs  

Q. ENROLLMENT OF RETURNING STUDENTS FROM LEAVE OF 
ABSENCE (LOA) 

760



 Enrollment for students who went on official leave of absence during the 
previous semester or term 
 

Office or Division Office of the College Secretary (OCS) 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Students who went on Leave of Absence (LOA) 

during the previous term 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Letter of Intent Student 

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES PROCESSIN PERSON 
TO BE G TIME RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Submit a letter 1. Receive the letter None 5 mins Program Adviser 
addressed to the     
Dean indicating     
your intent to     
return from Leave     
of Absence and to     
enroll in the     
current term.     

     
2. Get endorsement 2.Endorse the letter None 1 day Program Adviser 

from the Program    Department 
Adviser,    Chair/Program 
Department Chair    Coordinator 
/ Program     
Coordinator.     

     
3. Get approval from 3.Sign the letter None 1 day Dean 

the Dean     
     
4. Submit the letter to 1.1 Receive the None 10 mins OCS staff 

the OCS. Proceed approved letter    
with enrollment 1.2 Update the None 30 mins OCS staff 
process. Refer to status on    
enrollment student's SAIS    

 account    
1.3 Advise student None 15 mins OCS staff 

when his/her    
school ID will be    
released    

TOTAL None 2 days and 1  
hr 

R. ENROLLMENT OF SHIFTEES 

761



Enrollment for students from another program or college within UP Cebu whose 
application for shifting has been approved. 

 
Office or Division Office of the College Secretary (OCS) 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Students who come from another program or college 

within UP Cebu 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. Approved Application for Shifting of Course 1. OCS of previous program or college 

Form  
2. Program Study Plan 2. OCS of current college 
3. True Copy of Grades 3. OCS of previous program or college 

 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES PROCESSING PERSON 

TO BE TIME RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Submit your 1.Check courses that None  1 day Program 
approved can be credited and  Adviser/Program 
Application for determines courses   Coordinator 
Shifting of Course to be enrolled.   
Form, Program    
Study Plan and   
True Copy of    
Grades to the  
Program Adviser or   

Program  
Coordinator. 
Proceed with 
Enrollment for 
Continuing 
Students. 

 
TOTAL None 1 day  

 

762



S. ENROLLMENT OF TRANSFEREES 
 Enrollment of students from other UP units or other universities  
 

Office or Division Office of the College Secretary (OCS) 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Transferees from other UP units or other universities 

/ higher education institutions 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. Notice of Acceptance 1. Office of the University Registrar 
2. Program Study Plan (OUR) 
3. True Copy of Grades (for UP transferees) 2. Program Adviser 
4. Copy of Official Transcript of Records (for 3. OCS 

non-UP transferees) 4. Transferee’s home university / 
institution 

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES PROCESSING PERSON 
TO BE TIME RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Get your Notice of 1. Issue Notice of None  5 mins OUR staff 
Acceptance from Acceptance    
the OUR     

     
2. Submit your 2.Receive Notice of None 10 mins OCS staff 

Notice of Acceptance and    
Acceptance to the advise student on the    
OCS Staff. enrollment process    

     
3. Submit your 3.Check courses that None 1 day Program 

Program Study can be credited and   Adviser / 
Plan and True determine courses to   Program 
Copy of Grades / be enrolled  Coordinator 
copy of Official    
Transcript of    
Records to your  
Program Adviser /  
Program 
Coordinator. 
Proceed with the 
enrollment 
process. 

 
TOTAL None 1 day and 15  

mins 

 
 
 
 

763



T. REMOVAL OF GRADE OF “INCOMPLETE” (INC) OR “4” 
A student’s request to remove a grade of 4.0 or INC 
 

Office or Division Office of the College Secretary (OCS) 
Classification Highly Technical 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Students with grades of “INCOMPLETE” (INC) or 

“4” 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. Form 26A. Permit for Removal of OCS and downloadable at our.upcebu.edu.ph 

Incomplete/4.0  
2. Form 13C. Report for 

Completion/Removal of Grades 
CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES PROCESSING PERSON 

 TO BE TIME RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Secure and fill out 1.Furnish Form 26A None 5 mins OCS staff 
the Permit for and Form 13C to the    
Removal of student    
Incomplete/4.0     
(Form 26A) and     
Report for     
Completion/Remov     
al of Grades (Form     
13C)     

     
2. Secure signature of 2.Sign Form 26A to None 1 day Instructor 

your instructor. confirm the    
 application for    
 removal permit    
     
3. Submit the forms to 3.1 Check accuracy None 4 hrs OCS staff 

the Office of the of the    
College Secretary accomplished    
for checking and permit form and    
recommendation. determine if    

 student is    
 enrolled in the    
 current term    
 3.2 Sign the removal None 30 mins College 
 permit form   Secretary 
     
4. Get approval of the 4.Approve the None 1 day University 

University Registrar. application for   Registrar 
 removal permit    

     
5. Pay the fee at the 5.Receive payment PHP 30 mins Cashier 

Cash Office. and indicate amount 20.00   

764



 paid, date, and OR    
 number on the form.    
     
6. Submit duly paid 6.1 Grade the None 10 days Instructor 

Form 26A and Form subject upon    
13C to your completion and    
instructor for action. submit    

accomplished    
Form 13C to None 30 mins OCS Staff 
OCS 

6.2 Encode the 
grade in SAIS 

TOTAL P20.00 12 days, 5 hrs  
and 35 mins 

 
 
 
U. REQUEST TO CROSS-REGISTER 
 Permit for a student to cross enroll in another UP campus or university 
 

Office or Division Office of the College Secretary (OCS) 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Students  
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

1. Request to Cross-Register Form 1. OCS and downloadable at 
 our.upcebu.edu.ph 
2. University Clearance 2. OUR 
3. Report of Grades from Previous Term 3. OCS 
4. Updated Checklist   
5. UP ID  

6. Other supporting documents (Medical 
Certificate, Adviser’s certificate re: 
remaining deficiencies of graduating 
students, etc.) 

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES PROCESSING PERSON 
TO BE TIME RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Secure and fill out 1.Furnish the form for None 5 mins OCS staff 
the Request to the Request to Cross-    
Cross-Register Register to the student    
Form, in two (2)     
copies. Attach     
documents in     
support of the     

    

765



request to cross-     
enroll.      

 2.Validate the None 4 hrs Program 
2. Request for subject(s) to cross-   Adviser 

validation of register    
subjects to cross-     
register from your     
Program Adviser.     

  None 5 mins OCS staff 
3. Submit the signed 3.1 Receive the    

Request to Cross- required    
Register Form, documents and    
accomplished check its    
University completeness None 10 mins OCS staff 
Clearance, True 3.2 Forward the    
Copy of Grades documents for    
(TCG) from approval to the    
previous term, Dean and the    
Updated program University    
checklist and any Registrar None 2 days Dean 
other supporting 3.3 Sign the request    
documents for to cross-register   University 
reason/s of cross-    Registrar 
registration to the     
OCS Staff, for     
approval of the     
Dean and     
University     
Registrar.     

 4.Approve / disapprove None 1 day VCAA 
4. For cross- the request.    

registration     
outside the UP     
System, submit     
the form for action     
to the Vice     
Chancellor for     
Academic Affairs     
(VCAA)     

 5.Receive payment PHP 30 mins Cashier 
5. If approved, pay and indicate amount 40.00   

the registration fee paid, OR number, and    
at the Cash Office. date paid on the form.    

     
 6.Receive copies of None 10 mins OCS staff 
6. Submit approved the approved Permit    

Permit to Cross- Form, accomplished    
Register Form, University Clearance,    
Official Receipt, and UP ID    
accomplished     
University    

766



Clearance, and    
UP ID to your    
OCS Staff.    
Present your    
approved Permit    
to Cross-Register  
Form to your host 
unit.  

 
 

TOTAL PHP 3 days and 5  
40.00 hrs 

 
 
V. REQUEST FOR SUBSTITUTION OF COURSES 
 Request by a student for his or her previously taken course/s to be credited as 
substitute for required subjects in his/her current program 
 

Office or Division Office of the College Secretary (OCS) 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Students (Undergraduate) 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

1. Substitution Form 1. OCS and downloadable at 
2. True Copy of Grades our.upcebu.edu.ph 
 2. OCS 

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES PROCESSING PERSON 
TO BE TIME RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Fill out the 1.Furnish the None 5 mins OCS staff 
Substitution Form Substitution Form    
in three (3) copies.     

     
2. Have it endorsed 2.1 Sign substitution of None 1 day Instructor/s of 

by the Instructor/s subjects   required 
of the required    subjects  
subject/s, program     
adviser, program 2.2 Recommend the None 1 day Program 
coordinator or substitution of   Adviser, 
department chair of subject(s) request   Department 
required subject,    Chair or 
and program    Program 
coordinator or    Coordinator of 

   required 

767



department chair of    subject/s and 
subject/s taken.    Department 

    Chair or 
     Program 
    Coordinator of 
    subject/s taken  
     
 3.Approve (or None 1 day Dean 
3. Get the approval disapprove) the    

from the Dean. request for    
 substitution    
     
 4.Receive the None 5 mins OCS staff 
4. If approved, submit approved request for   

approved form to substitution. 
the OCS. 

 
TOTAL None 3 days and 10  

mins 

 
 
 

768



W. REQUEST FOR TRUE COPY OF GRADES (TCG) / CERTIFICATES 
 Request by a student his or her copy of grades and certificates related to academic 
records. 
 

Office or Division Office of the College Secretary (OCS) 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Students 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. College Request Slip (Form 1.1F) OCS 
2. Valid ID   

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES PROCESSING PERSON 
TO BE TIME RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Secure and fill out 1.Furnish UPC None 10 mins OCS Staff 
the College Form 1.1 to the    
Request Slip (UPC student    
Form 1.1).     

     
2. Secure the 2.Sign the request None 1 day Library and 

signature of the slip after checking   Accounting 
Library and student records for   Office Staff 
Accounting Office. accountabilities    

     
3. Pay the fee at the 3.Receive payment PHP 30 mins Cashier 

Cash Office. and issue OR and 50.00   
 indicate amount paid per   
 and OR number on page   
 the request slip.    
     
4. Submit the Official 4.1 Receive filled up None 10 mins OCS staff 

Receipt (OR) accomplished    
together with the request slip and    
duly accomplished OR    
request to the OCS. 4.2 Prepare the TCG None 1 day OCS staff 

 4.3 Sign the TCG None 7 hrs College 
    Secretary 
     
5. To claim, present 5.Release the signed None 10 mins OCS staff 

your OR and one TCG 
valid ID. An 
authorization letter 
with proper 
identification is 
required if the 
claimant is not the 
owner. 

769



TOTAL PHP 3 days  
50.00 
per 
page 

 
 
X. REQUEST FOR WAIVER OF PREREQUISITES 
 Request of a student to take a course despite not completing the required 
prerequisite/s  
 

Office or Division Office of the College Secretary (OCS) 
Classification Complex 
Type of Transaction G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail Students  
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
1. Application for Waiver of Prerequisites OCS and downloadable at 
Form our.upcebu.edu.ph 
 
2. Updated checklist  

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES PROCESSING PERSON 
TO BE TIME RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Secure and fill out 1.Furnish copies of None 5 mins OCS staff 
Waiver of the Waiver of    
Prerequisites in Prerequisite Form.    
three (3) copies.     

     
2. Get endorsement 2.Endorse the None 3 days Program Adviser 

from your Adviser, request for waiver of   Teacher in 
teacher in prerequisites   prerequisite 
prerequisite course,    course 
teacher in course to     
be enrolled, OSA,    Teacher in 
and Department    course to be 
Chair/ Program    enrolled 
Coordinator.     

    OSA 
     
    Department 
    Chair or 
    Program 
    Coordinator 
     
3. Submit endorsed 3.1 Check subjects None 4 hrs OCS staff 

application form to listed, if student is    
the Office of the graduating, and    
College Secretary indicate student’s    
for action.    

770



 academic    
 standing None 4 hrs College 
 3.2 Sign the   Secretary 
 application for    
 waiver of    
 prerequisites    
4. Get approval from  None 1 day Dean 

your Dean. 4.Make final decision    
 on the application for    
 waiver of    
 prerequisites    
5. If request is  None 5 mins OCS staff 

approved, proceed 5.Receive copy of  
with registration for approved waiver of  
the specified prerequisites 
course. Submit  
copies to the OUR  
and OCS. 

TOTAL None 5 days and 10  
mins 

 
 
Y. VALIDATION OF ENROLLMENT OF CONTINUING STUDENTS 
 Enrollment for continuing or old students (INCLUDE DEPT. CLEARANCE) 
Office or Division Office of the College Secretary (OCS) 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction G2C - Government to citizen 
Who may avail Continuing students 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 
Form 5A SAIS 
Updated checklist OCS 

CLIENT STEP AGENCY ACTION FEES TO PROCES- PERSON 
BE PAID SING RESPONSIBLE 

TIME 
1. Enlist your classes 1.Check the Form 5A None 4 hrs College / 

in SAIS during pre- for incomplete entries   Department Clerk 
enlistment period     
and print your Form     
5A. Submit to your     
College /     
Department Clerk.     
     

2. Submit the 2.1 Check the Form None 4 hrs Program Adviser 
validated Form 5A 5A for    
to your Program prerequisite,    
Adviser check if applying    

 for overload;    
 check for conflict;    
 None 4 hrs  

771



 2.2 Enlist / delete    
 courses if    
 necessary.  None 30 mins  
 2.3 Tag student as    
 “ADVISED”, apply    
 Tuition Calculate,    
 and sign the    
 Form 5A.    
  None if 30 mins College / 
3. Submit the signed 3.1 Check if student qualified for  Department Clerk 

Form 5A to your is tagged as Free Tuition   
College / “ADVISED” and or grantee   
Department Clerk. Tuition Calculate of   

 was applied. scholarship   
 3.2 Verify and sign    
 the Form 5A. Or as   
  computed   
  in Tuition   
  Calculate   
     
  None 5 mins OCS Staff 
4. If non-paying, 4.1 Receive the Form    

proceed to the OCS 5A and updated    
for validation of checklist.  None 10 mins  
enrollment. Submit 4.2 Issue and stamp    
the Form 5A and Form5 eOR with    
updated checklist.  “Registered” None 10 mins  

 4.3 Tag student as    
 “Officially Enrolled” None 5 mins  
 4.4 Affix student’s ID    
 with “Enrolled” sticker    
  None 1 hr OSA Staff 
5. If a paying student:  5.1) Check for the    

a) Go to OSA if with correct tagging of ST    
scholarship tuition discount or    
b) Go to Accounting scholarship None 1 hr Accounting Staff  
if applying for Loan 5.2 Check for    
c) Pay to Cashier completeness of    

 Application Loan    
 Form As 30 mins Cashier 
 5.3 Receive payment assessed   
 for assessed tuition    
 and issue Form5    
 eOR to student    
   None 5 mins OCS staff 
6. Submit Form5 eOR 6.1 Receive the Form   

to OCS. 5 eOR  and   
 stamp with   

“Registered” 10 mins  
  
  

772



6.2 Tag student as 5 mins  
“Officially   
Enrolled”   

6.3 Affix student’s ID 10 mins 
with “Enrolled” 
sticker 

6.4  Give one copy of 
Form5 eOR to 
student after 
student has 
affixed his/her 
signature. 

TOTAL No fees if 2 days  
FT-qualified and 30 
or as mins 
assessed 
for paying 
students. 

 
 
Feedback Mechanism:  
 
For concerns and inquiries, you may contact the Offices of the College Secretaries at the 
following emails and numbers:  
 
 
School of Management  ocs_som.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
     232 2642, 232 2855, 2338203, 2328187 local 304 
 
 
College of Social Sciences                ocs_css.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
     232 2642, 232 2855, 2338203, 2328187 local 210 
 
 
College of Science     ocs_cos.upcebu@up.edu.ph 
     232 2642, 232 2855, 2338203, 2328187 local 310 
 
 
College of Communication, Art, and Design 
     ocs_ccad.upcebu@up.edu.ph 

232 2642, 232 2855, 2338203, 2328187 local 315 
 
 
 

 
● All feedbacks will be received with utmost professionalism.  
● The feedback will be reviewed and forwarded to the unit/person concerned for 

immediate and appropriate response or action.  
 

773



 
Guesthouse 

 
For UP Cebu faculty, staff & REPS, students, alumni, other government agencies, private 
entities, walk -in clients. 

Office or Division Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administration - Dormitory 
Classification Simple 
Type of Transaction  

G2C – Government to Citizen 
Who may avail UP Cebu faculty, staff & REPS, students, alumni, other government 

agencies, private entities, walk- in clients 
CHECKLIST OF REQUIREMENTS WHERE TO SECURE 

Guesthouse Reservation form   Dormitory Manager/ Admin Aide 
FEES 

PROCESSING PERSON 
CLIENT STEPS AGENCY ACTION TO BE 

TIME RESPONSIBLE 
PAID 

1. Communication 1. Receives the call None 3 minutes Dormitory 
with the Dormitory or answer email Manager / Admin 
Manager or Aide 
Guesthouse  
Admin Aide 

2. Formulation of the 2. Receives the None 1 minute Dormitory 
Reservation reservation request Manager / Admin 
Request Aide 

 
 3. Check for the None   
 availability of room   
 via the designated   
 arrival date.   

3. Wait for the 4. Accept and or deny None 10 minutes to 1 Dormitory 
Confirmation the reservation day Manager / Admin 
Notification based on the Aide 

availability of  
rooms in the day(s) 
reserved.  

4. Confirmation  5. Call, email, or chat None 3 minutes Dormitory 

   notification  the client to notify Manager / Admin 
confirmation of the Aide 
reservation  

5. Pay rental 6. Accepts Official None 1 minute Dormitory 
Receipt issued by Manager / Admin 
the UP Cash Office Aide 

 
6. Check-in and   7.zWelcome Guest/s None 1 minute Dormitory 

    Register  Manager / Admin 
Aide 
 

TOTAL None  1 day and 19  
minutes 

 
 

774